# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Introduction to Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, and Visual Studio to deploy and manage Azure resources
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying Microsoft Azure VMs by using the Azure portal
  
#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure VM by using the Azure portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side, click **+ Create a resource**. 
5.   On the **New** blade, click **Compute** and then click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**.
6.   On the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Name: **10992B0101-vm1**
  -   VM disk type: **HDD**
  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Subscription: type the name of your Azure subscription you will be using for this lab
  -   Resource group: click **Create new** and type **10992B0101-LabRG** as the name of the new resource group
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you have the ability to provision Azure VMs
  -   Already have a Windows Server license: **No**

7.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
8.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click one of available, low-priced VM sizes and then click **Select**.
9.   On the **Settings** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Availability set: **None**
  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**
  -   Virtual network: accept the default value, which creates a new virtual network
  -   Subnet: accept the default setting, which creates a new subnet named **default**
  -   Public IP address: accept the default value, which will create a new public IP address
  -   Network security group: accept the default value, which will create a new network security group allowing access via RDP
  -   Extensions: **No extensions**
  -   Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**
  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**
  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

10.   On the **Summary** blade, click **Create**.
11.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully deployed an Azure VM by using the Azure portal.


## Exercise 2: Deploying an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell 
  
#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell

1.   On  MIA-CL1, click **Start**. 
2.   In the Start menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, in the right-click menu, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
3.   If prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**
4.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, click **File**¸ and then click **Open**.
5.   In the **Open** dialog box, browse to **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod01\\Labfiles**, click **New-10992BAzureVM.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
6.   Review the content of the script. Note that the purpose of the script is to provision another virtual machine into the same Azure region and of the same size as the virtual machine you deployed in the previous exercise by using the Azure portal.
7.   In the script, replace the `<subscription-name>` placeholder with the name of your Azure subscription.
8.   Click **File**, and then click **Save** to save the changes.
9.   Click **Debug**, and then click **Run/Continue** to execute the script.
10.   When prompted, type in the credentials of the user account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click **Sign in**.
11.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully deployed an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Deploying an Azure VM by using Azure CLI 
  
#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure VM by using Azure CLI
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, right-click the **Command Prompt** shortcut on the taskbar, in the pop-up menu, right-click **Command Prompt**, and then, in the right-click menu, click **Run as administrator**. 
2.   From **Administrator: Command Prompt**, type the following command and then press Enter:

```
az login
```

3.   You will be presented with the message instructing you to open a browser at the page https://aka.ms/devicelogin and provide the code included in the message to authenicate. Start Internet Explorer and browse to https://aka.ms/devicelogin. 
4.   On the **Device Login** page, type the code included in the message. This will identify Microsoft Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface as the application attempting to authenticate. Click **Continue**. 
5.   In the sign-in windows that appears, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
6.   Note the message stating that you have signed in to the Microsoft Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface application on your device. Close the Internet Explorer window.
7.   If you have multiple subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account, to identify the subscription in which you are going to create a new Azure VM, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
az account show
```

8.   Note the value of the `id` property for each subscription in the output of the previous command. To specify the subscription in which you are going to create a virtual machine, type the following command and then press Enter (replace `<subscription_id>` with the value of the `id` property of that subscription):

```
az account set --subscription "<subscription_id>"
```

9.   To identify the Azure region to which you deployed the Azure VMs in the previous exercise, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
az vm list --query "[?contains(name,'10992B')].location" --output tsv
```

10.   To identify the size of the Azure VMs you deployed in the previous exercises, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
az vm list --query "[?contains(name,'10992B')].hardwareProfile.vmSize" --output tsv
```

11.   Create a new resource group in the same Azure region by typing the following and pressing Enter (replace `<location>` with the name of the Azure region you identified in step 9):

```
az group create --name 10992B0103-LabRG --location <location>
```

12.   Create a virtual network in the same location as the resource group by typing the following and pressing Enter:

```
az network vnet create --resource-group 10992B0103-LabRG --name 10992B0103-LabRG-vnet --address-prefix 10.1.0.0/20 --subnet-name default --subnet-prefix 10.1.0.0/24
```

13.   Create a network security group that will contain an rule allowing RDP connectivity by typing the following and pressing Enter:

```
az network nsg create --resource-group 10992B0103-LabRG --name 10992B0103-vm3-nsg
```

14.   Create an RDP allow rule in the newly created network security group by typing the following and pressing Enter:

```
az network nsg rule create --resource-group 10992B0103-LabRG --nsg-name 10992B0103-vm3-nsg --name default-allow-rdp --protocol tcp --priority 1000 --destination-port-range 3389 --access allow
```

15.   Create a public IP address by typing the following and pressing Enter:

```
az network public-ip create --resource-group 10992B0103-LabRG --name 10992B0103-vm3-ip
```

16.   Create a network interface card by typing the following and pressing Enter:

```
az network nic create --resource-group 10992B0103-LabRG --name 10992B0103-vm3-nic --vnet-name 10992B0103-LabRG-vnet --subnet default --public-ip-address 10992B0103-vm3-ip --network-security-group 10992B0103-vm3-nsg
```

17.   Create a new Azure VM by typing the following and pressing Enter (make sure to replace `<location>` and `<vmsize>` with the Azure region and VM size you identified in step 9 and 10, respectively):

```
az vm create --resource-group 10992B0103-LabRG --name 10992B0103-vm3 --location <location> --nics 10992B0103-vm3-nic --image win2016datacenter --size <vmsize> --admin-username Student --admin-password Pa55w.rd1234
```

18.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully deployed an Azure VM by using Azure CLI.


## Exercise 4: Creating and deploying an Azure Resource Manager deployment template
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure Resource Manager template
  
  > **Note:** If, after starting Visual Studio you receive the message "Your evaluation period has ended", then sign in to the Visual Studio by following the procedure described in https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio 

1.   On MIA-CL1, click **Start** and then, in the Start menu, click **Visual Studio 2017**.
2.   In the **Visual Studio** window, click **File**, click **New**, and then click **Project**.
3.   In the **New Project** dialog box, in the **Installed** templates section, ensure that **Visual C#** is selected, and then click the **Cloud** node.
4.   In the center of the dialog box, in the list of templates, click **Azure Resource Group**.
5.   Ensure that the **Create directory for solution** checkbox is selected.
6.   Specify the following information, and then click **OK**:

  -   Name: **10992B0104-LabVM**
  -   Location: **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod01\\Labfiles**
  -   Solution name: **10992B0104-LabVM**

7.   In the **Select Azure Template** dialog box, select **Windows** **Virtual Machine**, and then click **OK**.
8.   In the **Solution Explorer** window, in the **Visual Studio** interface, expand **10992B0104-LabVM**.
9.   Click the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file.
10.   In the **JSON Outline** window, click the **parameters** (cogwheel) icon. Review the list of parameters.
11.   Double-click the **resources** (cube) icon, and then review the list of resources.

  > **Note:** Resources include a storage account, a public IP address, a virtual network, a network interface, and a virtual machine.

12.   In the **JSON Outline** window, expand the **VirtualMachine** resource entry. Note that the virtual machine resource contains by defalut the **AzureDiagnostics** VM extension.
13.   In the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file, in line 27, replace the entry `"defaultValue": "2012-R2-Datacenter",` with the entry `"defaultValue": "2016-Datacenter",`.
14.   In the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file, in line 29, replace the entry `"2008-R2-SP1",` with the entry `"2016-Datacenter",`.
15.   In the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file, in line 51, replace `Standard_A2` with the VM size you used for deployment of Azure VMs in the previous exercises of this lab.
16.   Save changes to the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager template from Visual Studio
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Solution Explorer window of the Visual Studio interface, right-click the **10992B0104-LabVM** project, and then click **Build**.
2.   Right click the **10992B0104-LabVM** project, click **Deploy**, and then click **New**.
3.   In the **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, in the **Add an account** drop down list box, click the **Add an account**. 
4.   In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, type in the name of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
5.   When prompted, type in the password of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription and then click **Sign in**.
6.   In the **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, click **Edit Parameters**.
7.   In the **Edit Parameters** dialog box, type in the following settings:

  -   adminUsername: **Student**
  -   adminPassword: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   dnsNameForPublicIP: a unique hostname name that will be assigned to the public IP address of the VM
  
  > **Note:** You can test whether the name is unique by using the Test-AzureRmDnsAvailability Azure PowerShell cmdlet

  -   windowsOSVersion: **2016-Datacenter**

8.   Enable the **Save passwords as plain text in the parameters file** check box, and then click **Save**.
9.   Back in the **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, click the **Resource group** drop-down list box, and then click **Create New**.
10.   In the **Create Resource Group** dialog box, ensure that the **Resource group name** is set to **10992B0104-LabRG**. In the **Resource group location** drop-down list box, select the same Azure region you used in previous exercises in this lab, and then click **Create**.
11.   Back in the **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, click **Deploy**.
12.   Monitor the progress of deployment by viewing entries in the **Output** window.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have used Visual Studio to successfully create and deploy an Azure Resource Manager template that provisions a new Azure VM.


## Exercise 5: Identify and delete newly deployed resources
  
#### Task 1: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   In the Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   If prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the hub menu, click **Resource Groups**.
5.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click **10992B0101-LabRG**. 
6.   On the **10992B0101-LabRG** blade, click **Delete**.

  > **Note:** Notice that in addition to the **10992B0101-vm1** VM, the resource group contains all of its resources, including the network interface, network security group, public IP address, virtual network, and storage account.

7.   In the **Are you sure you want to delete "10992B0101-LabRG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type in the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
8.   Scroll to the left to the **Resource groups** blade.
9.   Repeat the steps 5 to 8 for the **10992B0102-LabRG**, **10992B0103-LabRG**, and **10992B0104-LabRG** resource groups.
10.   Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have used the Azure portal to successfully remove the all resource groups and their resources that you created in this lab.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
