# Module 1: Introduction to Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, and Visual Studio to deploy and manage Azure resources
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation is an engineering, manufacturing, and distribution company. The organization is based in London, England, with major offices located in Dallas, Texas in the United States, and Singapore. The two main locations in London and Dallas consist of a datacenter and adjacent office buildings. The office building in Singapore contains a server room. In addition, there are a number of small regional branch offices and distribution centers. The company is currently expanding its network of business partnerships and providing additional services to customers. 

The IT infrastructure at A. Datum is expanding rapidly and the company is interested in minimizing the cost of the expansion. The datacenter in London is close to maximum capacity for space and power.

To address existing challenges, A. Datum is considering utilizing Azure services to enhance the capabilities and capacity of its on-premises deployments. You are responsible for identifying Azure services that would help A. Datum to accomplish this objective. Your first task is to explore and compare management features by using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, and Visual Studio.

### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you should be able to:

-   Create an Azure VM by using the Azure portal.
-   Create an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell.
-   Create an Azure VM by using Azure CLI.
-   Create and deploy an Azure Resource Manager template that provisions an Azure VM
  > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 50 minutes

Virtual machine: **10992B-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In **Hyper-V Manager**, click **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In **Hyper-V Manager**, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In **Hyper-V Manager**, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign into **10992B-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Deploying an Azure VMs by using the Azure portal
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to explore the Azure Resource Manager deployment model. You need to test deployment of an Azure VM by using the Azure portal.

The main task for this exercise is:

1.   Deploy an Azure VM by using the Azure portal

#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure VM by using the Azure portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   Browse to the Azure portal and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal, create a new **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter** VM by using the Azure Resource Manager deployment model with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10992B0101-vm1**
  -   VM disk type: **HDD**
  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Subscription: type the name of your Azure subscription you will be using for this lab
  -   Resource group: create a new resource group named **10992B0101-LabRG**
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you have the ability to provision Azure VMs
  -   Already have a Windows Server license: **No**
  -   Size: select any available, low-priced VM size
  -   Availability set: **None**
  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**
  -   Virtual network: accept the default value, which creates a new virtual network
  -   Subnet: accept the default setting, which creates a new subnet named **default**
  -   Public IP address: accept the default value, which will create a new public IP address
  -   Network security group: accept the default value, which will create a new network security group allowing access via RDP
  -   Extensions: **No extensions**
  -   Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**
  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**
  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

4.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed an Azure VM by using the Azure portal.


## Exercise 2: Deploying Azure VMs by using Azure PowerShell
  
### Scenario
  
A. A. Datum wants to explore automation capabilities of Azure PowerShell. You need to test deployment of an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell.

The main task for this exercise is:

1.   Deploy an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell

#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start **Windows PowerShell ISE** as administrator.
2.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, open the **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod01\\Labfiles\\New-10992BAzureVM.ps1** script.
3.   Review the content of the script. Note that the purpose of the script is to provision another virtual machine into the same Azure region and of the same size as the virtual machine you deployed in the previous exercise by using the Azure portal.
4.   In the script, replace the &lt;_subscription-name_&gt; placeholder with the name of your Azure subscription.
5.   Save the changes.
6.   Execute the script.
7.   When prompted, sign in with the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
8.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next task.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully deployed an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Deploying an Azure VM by using Azure CLI 

### Scenario

A. Datum wants to explore automation capabilities of Azure CLI. You need to test deployment of an Azure VM by using Azure CLI.

The main task for this exercise is:

1.   Deploy an Azure VM by using Azure CLI


#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure VM by using Azure CLI

1.   On MIA-CL1, start **Command Prompt** as administrator. 
2.   From **Administrator: Command Prompt**, use `az login` to authenticate to your Azure subscription as the Service Administrator. 
3.   If you have multiple subscriptions associated with the account you used to authenticate, use the `az account set` command to specify the target subscription that you are using in this lab. 
4.   Use the `az vm list --query` command to identify the Azure region to which you deployed the Azure VMs in the previous exercise.
5.   Use the `az vm list --query` command to identify the size of the Azure VMs you deployed in the previous exercise.
6.   Create a new resource group named **10992B0103-LabRG** in the Azure region you identified in step 4 by using the `az group create` command. Use this resource group and this Azure region to host all resources you will create in this exercise.
7.   Create a virtual network named **10992B0103-LabRG-vnet** with the address prefix **10.1.0.0/20** and a single subnet named **default** with the subnet prefix **10.1.0.0/24** in the same location as the resource group by using the `az network vnet create` command. 
8.   Create a network security group named **10992B0103-vm3-nsg** by using the `az network nsg create` command.
9.   Create an RDP allow rule named **default-allow-rdp** with the priority **1000** in the newly created network security group by using the `az network nsg rule create` command. 
10.   Create a public IP address named **10992B0103-vm3-ip** by using the `az network public-ip create` command.
11.   Create a network interface card named **10992B0103-vm3-nic** attached to the **default** subnet of the **10992B0103-LabRG-vnet** virtual network, with the public IP address **10992B0103-vm3-ip** and the network security group **10992B0103-vm3-nsg** by using the `az network nic create` command. 
12.   Use the `az vm create` command to create a new Azure VM named **10992B0103-vm3** with the network interface card **10992B0103-vm3-nic**, based on the Windows Server 2016 image, of the same size that you used in the previous exercises of this lab, and with the administrative credentials set to the **Student** username and **Pa55w.rd1234** password. 
13.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully deployed an Azure VM by using Azure CLI.


## Exercise 4: Creating and deploying an Azure Resource Manager deployment template
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to explore declarative deployment capabilities offered by Azure Resource Manager. You need to create a sample Azure Resource Manager deployment template to provision an Azure VM, and then deploy it to a new resource group by using Visual Studio.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure Resource Manager template
2.   Deploy an Azure Resource Manager template from Visual Studio


#### Task 1: Create an Azure Resource Manager template

    > **Note:** If, after starting Visual Studio you receive the message "Your evaluation period has ended", then sign in to the Visual Studio by following the procedure described in https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio  

1.   On MIA-CL1, start Visual Studio and create a new **Visual C#** project based on the **Azure Resource Group Cloud** template, with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10992B0104-LabVM**
  -   Location: **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod01\\Labfiles**
  -   Solution name: **10992B0104-LabVM**

2.   Use the **Windows Virtual Machine** Azure template to populate the project.
3.   View the content of the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file and its **JSON Outline**.
4.   In the **JSON Outline** window, review the list of parameters and resources.
    > **Note:** Resources include a storage account, a public IP address, a virtual network, a network interface, and a virtual machine. In addition, the virtualMachine resource contains the **AzureDiagnostics** VM extension resource.

5.   In the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file, in line 27, set the **defaultValue** of the **windowsOSVersion** parameter to **2016-Datacenter**.
6.   In the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file, in line 29, remove **2008-R2-SP1** from the allowed values of the **windowsOSVersion** parameter and replace it with the **2016-Datacenter** value.
7.   In the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file, in line 51, replace the **Standard_A2** size with the VM size you used for deployment of Azure VMs in the previous exercises of this lab.
8.   Save changes to the **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager template from Visual Studio
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Visual Studio interface, in the Solution Explorer window, initiate the build of the project.
2.   From the Solution Explorer window, initiate a new deployment.
3.   From the **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, sign in to your Azure subscription with the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   Edit parameters of the template deployment by using the following settings:

  -   adminUsername: **Student**
  -   adminPassword: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   dnsNameForPublicIP: a unique hostname name that will be assigned to the public IP address of the VM
    > **Note:** You can test whether the name is unique by using the Test-AzureRmDnsAvailability Azure PowerShell cmdlet
  -   windowsOSVersion: **2016-Datacenter**
  -   Save passwords as plain text in the parameters file: enable the check box

5.   From the **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, create a new resource group named **10992B0104-LabRG** in the Azure region closest to the classroom location.
6.   Start the deployment.
7.   Monitor the progress of deployment by viewing entries in the **Output** window.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have used Visual Studio to successfully create and deploy an Azure Resource Manager template that provisions a new Azure VM.


## Exercise 5: Identify and delete newly deployed resources
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to minimize cost associated with testing Azure capabilities. You need to identify and delete all of the resources that you deployed during your tests.

The main task for this exercise is:

1.   Identify and delete all lab Azure resources.


#### Task 1: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources.
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   Browse to the Azure portal, and if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **Resource groups** blade, and then delete the **10992B0101-LabRG**, **10992B0102-LabRG**, **10992B0103-LabRG**, and **10992B0104-LabRG** resource groups. 
4.   Close all open windows.
    > **Note:** The resource group contains, in addition to the VMs, all of their resources, including network interfaces, network security groups, public IP addresses, virtual networks, and storage accounts.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have used the Azure portal to successfully remove the classic VMs and Azure Resource Manager VMs that you created, and all of their associated resources.

  
**Question** 
Which deployment methodology would you use to provision a multi-tier solution in Azure?

**Question** 
What method would you use to create a Resource Manager template?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  