# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Integrating with Azure virtual networks
# Lab: Implementing a point-to-site VPN by using Azure Resource Manager
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing a Microsoft Azure subscription for implementing a point-to-site VPN
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual network

1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side, click **+ Create a resource**. 
5.   On the **New** blade, click **Networking** and then, click **Virtual network**.
6.   On the **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  -   Name: **10992B0301-vnet**
  -   Address space: **10.3.0.0/20**
  -   Subscription: select the name of the Azure subscription which you will be using for this lab
  -   Resource group: click **Create new** and type **10992B0301-LabRG** as the name of the new resource group, and then click **OK**
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you have the ability to provision virtual networks, preferably close to the lab location
  -   Subnet: **subnet-0**
  -   Address range: **10.3.0.0/24**
  -   DDoS protection: **Basic**
  -   Service endpoints: **Disabled**
  -   Firewall: **Disabled**

7.   Wait until the virtual network is provisioned. 


#### Task 2: Create the gateway subnet.
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **Virtual networks**. 
2.   On the **Virtual networks** blade, click **10992B0301-vnet**. 
3.   On the **10992B0301-vnet** blade, click **Subnets**.
4.   On the **10992B0301-vnet - Subnets** blade, click **+ Gateway Subnet**.
5.   On the **Add subnet** blade, in the **Address range (CIDR block)** textbox, type **10.3.15.224/27** and then click **OK**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully used the Azure portal to create a virtual network including the gateway subnet. 


## Exercise 2: Configuring point-to-site VPN


#### Task 1: Create the VPN gateway

1.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **+ Create a resource**.
2.   On the **New** blade, click **Networking**, and then click **Virtual network gateway**.
3.   On the **Create virtual network gateway**, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  -   Name: **10992B0301-gw**
  -   Gateway type: **VPN**
  -   VPN type: **Route-based**
  -   SKU: **VpnGw1**
  -   Enable active-active mode: leave the checkbox cleared
  -   Virtual network: click ***Choose a virtual network*** and then click on **10992B0301-vnet**
  -   Public IP address: click **Create new** and type **10992B0301-gw-ip** in the name box
  -   Configure BGP ASN: leave the checkbox cleared
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource group: **10992B0301-LabRG**
  -   Location: the name of an Azure region where you created the virtual network in the previous exercise

4.   Do not wait for the gateway to be provisioned but instead proceed to the next task.

  > **Note:** Provisioning of the VPN gateway can take up to 45 minutes.

 
#### Task 2: Generate the root and client certificates
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, click **Start**. 
2.   In the Start menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, in the right-click menu, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
3.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, click **File**¸ and then click **Open**.
4.   In the **Open** dialog box, browse to **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod03\\Labfiles**, click **New-10992BP2SVPNCerts.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
5.   Review the content of the script. Note that the purpose of the script is to create two certificates. The first one is a root certificate, which public key you will upload to Azure. The second one is a client certificate that would need to be installed on every VPN client computer. The client certificate references the root certificate.
6.   At the prompt in the console window, type the following command and then press Enter:

```
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Bypass
```

7.   On the **Execution Policy Change** window, click **Yes**

  > **Note:** This change is required to allow this unsigned script to run, best practice is to always digitally sign scripts.

8.   Execute the script by pressing the **F5** key or clicking the **Run Script** toolbar icon.


#### Task 3: Export the private key of the client certificate
  
1.   In the console pane of the PowerShell ISE, (at the prompt) type **mmc** and then press Enter.
2.   On the File menu of the Microsoft Management Console window, click **Add/Remove Snap-in…**
3.   Click Certificates and then click **Add >**, then click **Finish**. Click **OK** to close the Add or Remove Snap-ins window.
4.   In the Certificates Microsoft Management Console window, in the **Certificates** subnode of the **Personal** node, right-click **10992BLabP2SChildCert** and click **All Tasks** in the right-click menu. Next, click **Export** in the **All Tasks** submenu. This will launch **Certificate Export Wizard.**
5.   On the **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.
6.   On the **Export Private Key** page, select the **Yes, export the private key** option, and then click **Next**.
7.   On the **Export File Format** page, accept the default options, and then click **Next**.
8.   On the **Security** page, select the **Password** check box, type **Pa55w.rd** in both the **Password** and the **Confirm password** boxes, and then click **Next**
9.   On the **File to Export** page, in the **File name** box, type **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Client1Certificate.pfx**, and then click **Next**.
10.   On the **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
11.   In the **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.
12.   Switch to the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-Item -Path 'F:\Allfiles\Mod03\Labfiles\Client1Certificate.pfx'
```

13.  Verify that the file containing the private key of the client certificate has been successfully created.

  > **Note:** At this point, you would securely copy the client certificate to a client computer and import it into the **Personal** certificate store of the primary user of that computer. You can perform the import by using the Certificates snap-in of the Microsoft Management Console. These steps are not included in the lab, because the lab computer already has the client certificate installed.

  > **Note:** Before you proceed to the next task, verify that the VPN gateway has been successfully provisioned. 


#### Task 4: Configure the Point-to-Site VPN gateway

1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **All services** and, in the service menu, locate and click the **Virtual network gateways** entry.
2.   On the **Virtual network gateways** blade, click **10992B0301-gw**.
3.   On the **10992B0301-gw** blade, click **Point-to-site configuration**. 
4.   On the **10992B0301-gw - Point-to-site configuration** blade, click **Configure now**.
5.   In the **Address pool** text box, type **10.255.255.0/24**.
6.   In the **Tunnel type** section, select **SSTP (SSL)** 
7.   In the **Authentication type** section, ensure that the **Azure certificate** option is selected.
8.   In the **Root certificates** section, in the **NAME** text box, type **10992BLabP2SRootCert** 
9.   To retrieve the root certificate, switch to the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$rootCerText = Get-ChildItem -Path 'Cert:\CurrentUser\My' | Where-Object {$_.Subject -eq 'CN=10992BLabP2SRootCert'}
```

10.   To convert the certificate to Base64 format, in the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
$rootCertTextB64 = [System.Convert]::ToBase64String($rootCerText.RawData)
```

11.   To copy the resulting string into Clipboard, in the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Set-Clipboard -Value $rootCertTextB64
```

12.   Switch to the **10992B0301-gw - Point-to-site configuration** blade, and, in the **PUBLIC CERTIFICATE DATA** text box, paste the content of Clipboard.
13.   Click **Save**.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created a point-to-site VPN gateway, generated a self-signed root and client certificate, exported the public key of the root certificate, exported the private key of the client certificate, and configured the point-to-site VPN gateway.



## Exercise 3: Testing a point-to-site VPN from an on-premises virtual machine
  
#### Task 1: Download and install the VPN client configuration package
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, on the **10992B0301-gw - Point-to-site configuration** blade, click **Download VPN client**.
2.   When you receive a prompt asking whether to open or save the **10992B0301-gw.zip** file, click **Save** and then click **Open folder**. This will open a File Explorer window displaying the **Downloads** folder.
3.   Right-click the **10992B0301-gw.zip** file and, in the right-click menu, click **Extract All**. This will open another File Explorer window displaying the content of the **10992B0301-gw** folder.
4.   In the File Explorer window, navigate to the **WindowsAmd64** folder and double-click **VpnClientSetupAmd64.exe** file.
5.   When prompted whether to install a Vpn Client for 10992B0301-vnet, in the **10992B0301-vnet** dialog box, click **Yes**.
6.   Wait for the installation to complete. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 2: Establish a point-to-site VPN from the on-premises virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, click **Start**, and then click **Settings**.
2.   In the **Settings** app, click **Network &amp; Internet**.
3.   Click **VPN**.
4.   Click **10992B0301-vnet**, and then click **Connect**. This will display an **10992B0301-vnet** window.
5.   In the **10992B0301-vnet** window, click **Connect**.
6.   When you receive a prompt that states **Connection Manager needs elevated privilege to run the following Custom Action(s) to proceed with the connection**, click **Continue**.
7.   After you successfully connect, switch to the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Get-NetIPConfiguration
```

8.   The cmdlet returns the IP configuration of your lab computer. Notice the IPv4 address entry for **10992B0301-vnet** interface alias. It should contain the IP address from the VPN client IP address pool of **10.255.255.0/24**.
9.   Switch to the **Settings** app. On the **VPN** tab, click **10992B0301-vnet**, and then click **Disconnect**.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab resources.
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   In the Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   If prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the hub menu, click **Resource Groups**.
5.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click **10992B0301-LabRG**. 
6.   On the **10992B0301-LabRG** blade, click **Delete**.
7.   In the **Are you sure you want to delete "10992B0301-LabRG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type in the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
8.   Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully downloaded and installed the VPN client configuration package and established a point-to-site VPN from your lab computer.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
