# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Introduction to Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, and Visual Studio to deploy and manage Azure resources
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying Microsoft Azure VMs by using the Azure portal
  
#### Task 1: Deploy a classic Azure VM by using the Azure portal
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Microsoft Internet Explorer.
2.   In the Internet Explorer Address bar, type  **http://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **More services**.
5.   Scroll through the list of Azure services and resources. Note that the list includes a few entries with the term (classic), including:
  -   Cloud Services (classic)
  -   OS disks (classic)
  -   Reserved IP addresses (classic)
  -   Storage accounts (classic)
  -   Virtual machines (classic)
  -   Virtual networks (classic).

  >  **Note:** These options would allow you to view services provisioned by using the Azure classic deployment model.

6.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **New**. 
7.   In the  **New** blade, click **Compute**. To the right of **Featured**, click **See all**.
8.   In the  **Compute** blade, click the **Windows Server** tile, and in the **Windows Server** blade, click **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter**.
9.   In the  **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** blade, in the **Select a deployment model** drop-down list box select **Classic**, and then click  **Create**.
  >  **Note:** You can choose either **Resource Manager** or **Classic** in the **Select a deployment model** drop-down list box.

10.   In the  **Create virtual machine** blade, to the right in the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  -   Name:  **classicvm1**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Confirm password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription name

  -   Resource group:  **Create new**

  -   New resource group:  **classicvm1RG**

  -   Location: Azure region closest to the classroom location

  >  **Note:** Note that name of the Azure region. You will need it in the next exercise.


11.   Select the  **Choose a size** blade.
12.   In the  **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**, click  **D1 Standard**, and then click  **Select**.
13.   In  **Settings**, specify the following settings, and then click  **OK**:
  -   Disk type:  **Standard**

  -   Storage account: Accept the default value.

  >  **Note:** This creates a new storage account.

  -   Virtual network: Accept the default value.
  
  >  **Note:** This creates a new virtual network)

  -   Subnet:  **default (10.0.0.0/24)**

  -   Private IP address:  **Dynamic**

  -   Virtual IP address:  **Dynamic**

  -   Endpoints:  **2 endpoints configured**

  -   Extensions:  **No extensions**

  -   Diagnostics:  **Disabled**

  -   Availability set:  **None**


14.   In the  **Summary** blade, click **OK**.
15.   Note the  **Deployment started** message in the notification area at the top of the page.
16.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager VM by using the Azure portal
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, in the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **New**. 
2.   In the  **New** blade, click **Compute**. To the right of **Featured**, click **See all**.
3.   In the  **Compute** blade, under **Recommended**, click the **Windows Server** tile. 
4.   In the **Windows Server** blade, click **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter**.
5.   In the **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** blade, select  **Resource Manager**, and then click  **Create**.
  >  **Note:** You can choose either **Resource Manager** or **Classic** in the **Select a deployment model** drop-down list box.
  
6.   In the  **Create VM** blade, in the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  -   Name:  **armvm1**

  -   VM disk type:  **HDD**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**
  
  -   Confirm password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription name

  -   Resource group:  **Create new**

  -   New resource group:  **armvm1RG**

  -   Location: the same Azure region that you selected in the previous task


7.   Click the  **Choose a size** blade.
8.   In the  **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
9.   In the  **Choose a size** blade, click **D1 Standard**, and then click  **Select**.
10.   In  **Settings**, specify the following settings, and then click  **OK**:
  -   Use managed disks: No
  
  -   Storage account: Accept the default value, which creates a new storage account

  -   Virtual network: Accept the default value, which creates a new virtual network

  -   Subnet:  **default (10.0.0.0/24)**

  -   Public IP address: Accept the default value, which will create a new public IP address

  -   Network security group: Accept the default value, which will create a new network security group

  -   Extensions:  **No extensions**

  -   Diagnostics:  **Disabled**

  -   Availability set:  **None**


11.   In the  **Summary** blade, note that the new VM does not have any endpoints assigned. Instead, it has a Public IP address and a network security group.
12.   After reviewing the  **Summary** blade, click **OK**.
  >  **Note:** The **Deployment started** message displays in the notification area at the top of the page.

13.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a classic and Azure Resource Manager VM by using the Azure portal.


## Exercise 2: Deploying Azure VMs by using Azure PowerShell
  
#### Task 1: Deploy a classic VM by using an Azure PowerShell script
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, on the desktop, click  **Start**. 
2.   In the list of apps, scroll down to the  **Windows PowerShell** folder. Click the **Windows PowerShell** folder, and then right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**. 
3.   On the shortcut menu, click  **More**, and then click  **Run as administrator**.
4.   If prompted by User Account Control, click  **Yes**
5.   In the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, click **File**¸ and then click  **Open**.
6.   In the  **Open** dialog box, browse to **D:\\Mod01\\Labfiles**, click  **New-10992ClassicVM.ps1**, and then click  **Open**.
  >  **Note:** It provisions a new Azure VM by using classic deployment model, as indicated by the format of the Azure PowerShell cmdlets (without the Rm string following -Azure). In addition, the script does not contain any references to resource groups.

7.   In the script, replace the &lt;_subscription\_name_&gt; placeholder text with the name of your Azure subscription.
8.   In the script, replace the &lt;_Azure\_region\_name_&gt; placeholder with the name of the Azure region where you want to deploy the VM.
9.   Click  **File**, and then click  **Save** to save the changes.
10.   Click  **Debug** and then click **Run/Continue** to execute the script.
11.   When prompted, type in the name of the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click  **Sign in**.
12.   When prompted, type in the password for the Microsoft account, and then click  **Sign in**.
13.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager VM by using Azure PowerShell
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, click **File**, and then click  **Open**.
2.   In the  **Open** dialog box, browse to the **D:\\Mod01\\Labfiles** folder, and then click **New-10992ARMVM.ps1**.
3.   Review the content of the script. 
4.   In the script, replace the &lt;_subscription\_name_&gt; placeholder with the name of your Azure subscription.
5.   In the script, replace the &lt;_Azure\_region\_name_&gt; placehoder with the name of the Azure region where you want to deploy the VM.
6.   Click  **File**, and then click  **Save** to save the changes.
7.   Click  **Debug**, and then click  **Run/Continue** to execute the script.
8.   When prompted, type in the name of the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click  **Sign in**.
9.   When prompted, type in the password of the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click  **Sign in**.
10.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully deployed a classic VM and an Azure Resource Manager VM by using Azure PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Creating and deploying an Azure Resource Manager deployment template
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure Resource Manager template
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, click  **Start** and then click **Visual Studio 2015**. If prompted to sign in, click the **Sign in** button, and in the **Sign in** window, type the name of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click **Next**. In the **Enter password** window, type in the password of the Microsoft account that you provided in the previous step, and then click **Sign in**. In the **Personalization Account** window, click **Close**.
2.   In the  **Visual Studio** window, click **File**, click  **New**, and then click  **Project**.
3.   In the New Project dialog box, under Templates, click  **Visual C#**, and then click the  **Cloud** node.
4.   In the center of the dialog box, in the list of templates, click  **Azure Resource Group**.
5.   In the  **New Project** dialog box, ensure that the **Create directory for solution** checkbox is selected.
6.   Specify the following information, and then click  **OK**:
  -   Name:  **armvm3RG**

  -   Location:  **D:\\Mod01\\Labfiles**

  -   Solution name:  **armvm3RG**

7.   In the  **Select Azure Template** dialog box, select **Windows Virtual Machine**, and then click  **OK**.
8.   In the  **Solution Explorer** window, in the **Visual Studio** interface, expand **armvm3RG**.
9.   Click the  **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file.
10.  In the **JSON Outline** window, click the **parameters** (cogwheel) icon. Review the list of parameters.
11.   Double-click the  **resources** (cube) icon, and then review the list of resources.
  >  **Note:** Resources include a storage account, a public IP address, a virtual network, a network interface, and a VM.

12.   In the  **JSON Outline** window, expand the **VirtualMachine** entry. Note that the VirtualMachine entry contains the **AzureDiagnostics** VM extension.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager template from Visual Studio
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Solution Explorer window of the Visual Studio interface, right-click the  **armvm3RG** project, and then click **Build**.
2.   Right click the  **armvm3RG** project, click **Deploy**, and then click  **New**.
3.   In the  **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, in the drop down list box, click the **Add an account**. 
4.   In the  **Sign in to your account** dialog box, type in the name of the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
5.   When prompted, type in the password of Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription and then click  **Sign in**.
6.   In the  **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, click **Edit Parameters**.
7.   In the  **Edit Parameters** dialog box, type in the following settings:
  -   adminUsername:  **Student**

  -   adminPassword:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   dnsNameForPublicIP: type a unique name that will be assigned to the public IP address of the VM

  -   windowsOSVersion:  **2012-R2-Datacenter**

8.   Enable the  **Save passwords as plain text in the parameters file** check box, and then click **Save**.
9.   Back in the  **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, click the **Resource group** drop-down list box, and then click **Create New**.
10.   In the  **Create Resource Group** dialog box, ensure that the **Resource group name** is set to **armvm3RG**. In the  **Resource group location** drop-down list box, select the Azure region closest to the classroom location, and then click **Create**.
11.   Back in the  **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, click **OK**.
12.   Monitor the progress of deployment by viewing entries in the  **Output** window.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully created and deployed an Azure Resource Manager template that provisions a new Azure VM by using Visual Studio.


## Exercise 4: Identify and delete newly deployed resources
  
#### Task 1: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   In the Internet Explorer Address bar, type  **http://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter. 
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **Resource Groups**.
5.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **armvm1RG**. 
6.   In the  **armvm1RG** blade, click **Delete resource group**.
  >  **Note:** Notice that in addition to the **armvm1** VM, the resource group contains all of its resources, including the network interface, network security group, public IP address, virtual network, and storage account.

7.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "armvm1RG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type in the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
8.   Scroll to the left to the  **Resource groups** blade.
9.   Repeat the steps 5 to 8 for the  **armvm2RG** and **armvm3RG** resource groups.


#### Task 2: Identify and delete all lab classic resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, in the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **Resource Groups**.
2.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **classicvm1RG**. 
3.   In the  **classicvm1RG** blade, click **Delete resource group**.
  >  **Note:** Notice that in addition to the **classicvm1** VM, the resource group contains all of its associated resources, including the cloud service, virtual network, and storage account.

4.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "classicvm1RG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type in the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
5.   Scroll to the left to the  **Resource groups** blade, and then click the resource group whose name starts with the **classicvm2svc** prefix.
  >  **Note:** This is the resource group corresponding to the cloud service that you provisioned in Task 2 of Exercise 2.

6.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **Delete resource group**.
  >  **Note:** The resource group contains the VM and the corresponding cloud service. There is no virtual network, since the script did not deploy the VM into a virtual network. The storage account resides in a separate resource group.

7.   In the resulting blade, in the  **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type in the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
8.   Scroll to the left to the  **Resource groups** blade, and then click the resource group whose name starts with the **Default-Storage** prefix, followed by the name of the region to which you deployed the VM in task 1 of exercise 2.
  >  **Note:** This resource group contains the classic storage account. Due to dependencies of virtual machines on the storage account residing in the Default-Storage resource group, ensure that other resource groups have been successfully deleted before proceeding with step 9.

9.   In the blade of the resource group, click  **Delete resource group**.
10.   In the resulting blade, in the  **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type in the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
11.   Close all open windows.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have used the Azure portal to successfully remove the classic VMs and Azure Resource Manager VMs that you created, and all of their associated resources.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
