# Module 3: Integrating with Azure virtual networks
# Lab: Implementing a point-to-site VPN by using Azure Resource Manager
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wishes to implement hybrid networking between an Azure virtual network and its on-premises computers. While the longer-term plan is to set up either a site-to-site VPN or ExpressRoute, at this point you have been asked to test the direct network connectivity between the two environments by implementing a point-to-site VPN from a virtual machine running on one of your Hyper-V hosts.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Generate a self-signed root certificate and client certificates for authenticating and encrypting a point-to-site VPN tunnel.
-   Create an Azure virtual network and prepare it for a point-to-site VPN by using Azure Resource Manager.
-   Create an Azure virtual machine by using the Azure PowerShell following both the classic and the Azure Resource Manager deployment models.
-   Create and deploy an Azure Resource Manager template that provisions an Azure virtual machine.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 70 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10992A-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Student**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign into  **10992A-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:
  -   User name:  **Student**
  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Preparing a Microsoft Azure subscription for implementing a point-to-site VPN
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for setting up a test point-to-site VPN environment, you must first create a virtual network in Azure and configure networking prerequisites, including the gateway subnet and the public IP address for the VPN gateway.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure virtual network and configure its VPN prerequisites
2.   Examine the Azure virtual network configuration


#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual network and configure its VPN prerequisites
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start  **Windows PowerShell** as administrator.
2.   From the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following (replace **_&lt;subscription\_name&gt;_** with the name of your subscription):

  ```
  $subscriptionName = '<subscription_name>'
  ```

3.   From the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following (replace **_&lt;Azure\_region&gt;_** with the name of the Azure region provided by the instructor):

  ```
  $location = '<Azure_region>'
  ```

4.   From the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run the following:

  ```
  D:\Mod03\Labfiles\New-10992P2SVPN.ps1
  ```

  >  **Note:** If prompted whether to enable data collection, type N and press Enter.

5.   When you receive a prompt to sign in, then, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
6.   Wait until the script completes. This should take about a minute. Leave the  **Windows PowerShell** window open.


#### Task 2: Examine the Azure virtual network configuration
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Microsoft Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal, and if you receive a prompt, then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the  **AdatumVNetRG** resource group blade. Notice that the resource group contains a virtual network and a public IP address. The public IP address will be assigned to the VPN gateway after you provision it in the next exercise.
3.   Navigate to the  **Subnets** blade of the **AdatumVNet** virtual network. Notice that the virtual network contains two subnets provisioned by the Azure PowerShell script: **FrontEndSubnet** and **GatewaySubnet**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully created an Azure Resource Manager virtual network by using Azure PowerShell. 


## Exercise 2: Completing the point-to-site VPN setup
  
### Scenario
  
With Azure prerequisites for your point-to-site VPN test, now you need to complete the remaining components of the point-to-site VPN test environment. These include a test self-signed root and client certificates, the Azure VPN gateway root certificate, and a point-to-site VPN gateway. You also need to test the process of exporting a client certificate. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Generate the root and client certificates
2.   Configure the Azure VPN gateway root certificate
3.   Create a point-to-site VPN gateway
4.   Export a client certificate to a .pfx file


#### Task 1: Generate the root and client certificates
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Windows PowerShell** window, change the current directory to **D:\\Mod03\\Labfiles**.
2.   From the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following command:

  ```
  .\Makecert.exe -sky exchange -r -n "CN=AdatumRootCertificate" -pe -a sha1 -len 2048 -ss My "AdatumRootCertificate.cer"
  ```

3.   From the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following command:

  ```
  .\makecert.exe -n "CN=AdatumClient1Certificate" -pe -sky exchange -m 96 -ss My -in "AdatumRootCertificate" -is my -a sha1
  ```

4.   From the  **Windows PowerShell** window, list files in the current directory. Notice that the local folder contains the root certificate **AdatumRootCertificate.cer**.


#### Task 2: Configure the Azure VPN gateway root certificate
  
1.   From the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following:

  ```
  $rootCerText = Get-ChildItem -Path 'Cert:\CurrentUser\My' | Where-Object {$_.Subject -eq 'CN=AdatumRootCertificate'}
  ```

2.   From the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following:

  ```
  $rootCertText = [System.Convert]::ToBase64String($rootCerText.RawData)
  ```

3.   From the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following:

  ```
  $rootCert = New-AzureRmVpnClientRootCertificate -Name AdatumRootCert -PublicCertData $rootCertText
  ```


#### Task 3: Create a point-to-site VPN gateway
  
1.   From the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following:

  ```
  .\Set-10992P2SVPN.ps1
  ```

2.   Wait until the provisioning of the gateway completes. This might take about 40 minutes.


#### Task 4: Export a client certificate to a .pfx file
  
1.   Open the Microsoft Management Console Certificates snap-in showing the current user account certificate store.
2.   In the Microsoft Management Console window, navigate to the  **Personal Certificates** store of the current user.
3.   Notice that the certificates with private keys for both  **AdatumRootCertificate** and **AdatumClient1Certificate** are located in the current user's **Personal** certificate store. Start the **Certificate Export Wizard** for the **AdatumClient1Certificate**.
4.   Ensure that the private key is included in the certificate. Accept the default format options. Protect the certificate with the password set to  **Pa55w.rd**.
5.   Export the certificate to the  **D:\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Client1Certificate.pfx** file.
6.   In the  **Windows PowerShell** console, list files in the current directory. Notice that the local folder now also contains the client certificate **Client1Certificate.pfx**.

  >  **Note:** In typical circumstances, you would now securely copy the client certificate to a client computer and import it into the **Personal** certificate store of the user of that computer. You can accomplish this task by using the Certificates snap-in of the Microsoft Management Console. This step is skipped here in the lab, because the lab computer already has this certificate installed.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully generated a test self-signed root and client certificate, configured an Azure VPN gateway root certificate, created a point-to-site VPN gateway, and tested the export of a client certificate.


## Exercise 3: Testing a point-to-site VPN from an on-premises virtual machine
  
### Scenario
  
You have completed the test deployment of the point-to-site VPN components. Now you need to test connecting from your test computer to the Azure virtual network by using a point-to-site VPN.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Download and install the VPN client configuration package
2.   Establish a point-to-site VPN from the on-premises virtual machine
3.   Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources


#### Task 1: Download and install the VPN client configuration package
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Microsoft Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal, and if you receive a prompt, then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **All resources** blade, and then select **AdatumVGateway**.
3.   In the **Settings** section, click **Point-to-site configuration**.
4.   Uncheck the checkbox labeled **IKEv2 VPN** and click **Save**. 
5.   On  **MIA-CL1**, from the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following:

  ```
  Get-AzureRmVpnClientPackage -ResourceGroupName 'AdatumVNetRG' -VirtualNetworkGatewayName AdatumVGateway -ProcessorArchitecture Amd64
  ```

6.   Copy the URL returned by the cmdlet into Notepad, and then remove the leading and trailing double quotation marks.
7.   Start another instance of Internet Explorer. In the URL address bar, paste the contents of the clipboard.
8.   When you receive a prompt asking whether to run or save the file, click  **Run**.
9.   Click  **Actions**.
10.   In the  **SmartScreen Filter - Internet Explorer** dialog box, click **More Options**.
11.   Click  **Run anyway**.
12.   If prompted, in the  **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
13.   In the  **AdatumVNet** dialog box, click **Yes**.
14.   Complete the installation of the VPN client package.


#### Task 2: Establish a point-to-site VPN from the on-premises virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, navigate to the  **VPN** tab of the of **Network &amp; Internet** settings of the **Settings** app.
2.   Connect to the  **AdatumVNet** Azure virtual network.
3.   After you successfully connect, from to the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the following command:

  ```
  Get-NetIPConfiguration
  ```

4.   The cmdlet returns the IP configuration of your lab computer. Notice the IPv4 address entry for the AdatumVNet interface alias. It should contain the IP address from the VPN client IP address pool of **172.16.0.0./24**.
5.   Use the  **Settings** app to disconnect from the **AdatumVNet** Azure virtual network.
6.   Close all open windows


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to the Azure portal. If you receive a prompt to sign in, then, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the portal, navigate to the  **Resource groups** blade.
3.   From the  **Resource groups** blade, delete **AdatumVNetRG**. 
4.   Close Internet Explorer.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully downloaded and installed the VPN client configuration package and established a point-to-site VPN from your lab virtual machine.



## 
  
**Question** 
What are the key steps for implementing a point-to-site VPN?

**Question** 
If you have on-premises Linux virtual machines, can you initiate a point-to-site VPN connection?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
