# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Integrating with Azure Compute Services
# Lab A: Uploading an on-premises virtual disk file to Azure
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing for an upload of a virtual disk file to Azure
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure storage account
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side, click **+ Create a resource**. 
5.   On the **New** blade, click **Storage** and then click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**. 
6.   On the **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:

  -   Name: a unique name between 3 and 24 characters in length, which can include lowercase letters and digits
  -   Deployment model: **Resource Manager**
  -   Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**
  -   Performance: **Standard**
  -   Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**
  -   Secure tansfer required: **Disabled**
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource group: ensure that the **Create new** option is selected, and then type **10992B0201-LabRG**
  -   Location: any Azure region where you can create a storage account
  -   Configure virtual networks: **Disabled**
  -   Pin to dashboard: leave unchecked

7.   Do not wait until the storage account is created, but proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Create a VHDX virtual disk
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, right-click **Start** and, in the right-click menu, click **Computer Management**.
2.   In the **Computer Management** console, click **Disk Management**.
3.   Click the **Action** menu, and then on the menu, click **Create VHD**.
4.   In the **Create and Attach Virtual Hard Disk** dialog box, specify the following settings and then click **OK**:

  -   Location: **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod02\\Labfiles\\datadisk01.vhdx**
  -   Virtual hard disk size: **1 GB**
  -   Virtual hard disk format: **VHDX**
  -   Virtual hard disk type: **Dynamically expanding**

5.   Right-click the newly created disk and, in the menu, click **Detach VHD**.
6.   In the **Detach Virtual Hard Disk** dialog box, click **OK**.
7.   Close **Computer Management**.


#### Task 3: Convert the VHDX virtual disk to the VHD format
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, click **Start**, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, in the right-click menu, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
2.   At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, to create a variable containing the name of the data disk, type the following and then press Enter:

```
$diskName = 'datadisk01'
```

3.   At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, to convert the disk format from VHDX to VHD, type the following and then press Enter:

```
Convert-VHD -Path "F:\Allfiles\Mod02\Labfiles\$diskName.vhdx" -DestinationPath "F:\Allfiles\Mod02\Labfiles\$diskName.vhd"
```

4.   Wait until the conversion completes. This should take a few seconds

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure storage account, created a fixed .vhdx virtual disk file, and converted it to the VHD format.


## Exercise 2: Uploading a virtual disk file to Azure
  
#### Task 1: Upload the .vhd file to the Azure storage account
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following, and then press Enter.

```
Add-AzureRmAccount
```

2.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   If you have multiple subscriptions, then at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, (replace `<subscription_name>` with the name of your Azure subscription), and then press Enter:

```
Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionName '<subscription_name>'
```

4.   To create a variable referencing the storage account you created in the first exercise of this lab, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

```
$storageAccount = Get-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName '10992B0201-LabRG'
```

5.   To upload the .vhd file to the storage account you created in the previous exercise, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

```
Add-AzureRmVhd -ResourceGroupName $storageAccount.ResourceGroupName -Destination "$($storageAccount.PrimaryEndpoints.Blob)vhds/$diskName.vhd" -LocalFilePath "F:\Allfiles\Mod02\Labfiles\$diskName.vhd"
```

  > **Note:** Because the **Add-AzureRmVhd** cmdlet copies only the content of the VHD file that is in use, the upload should take a few seconds. In addition, the cmdlet automatically converts the dynamically expanding disk into the fixed format.


#### Task 2: Convert an uploaded .vhd file into a managed data disk
  
1.   To define the managed disk configuration, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following, and then press Enter.

```
$diskConfig = New-AzureRmDiskConfig -AccountType 'StandardLRS' -Location $storageAccount.Location -CreateOption Import -StorageAccountId $storageAccount.id -SourceUri "$($storageAccount.PrimaryEndpoints.Blob)vhds/$diskName.vhd" 
 
```

2.   To convert the uploaded .vhd file into a managed disk, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following, and then press Enter.

```
New-AzureRmDisk -Disk $diskConfig -ResourceGroupName $storageAccount.ResourceGroupName -DiskName $diskName
```


#### Task 3: Provision an Azure VM
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side, click **+ Create a resource**. 
5.   On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.
6.   On the **Compute** blade, click **Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS**.
7.   On the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Name: **10992B0201-vm1**
  -   VM disk type: **HDD**
  -   User name: **student**
  -   Authentication type: **Password**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Subscription: select the name of the Azure subscription where you created the storage account in the first exercise of this lab
  -   Resource group: click **Use existing** and select **10992B0201-LabRG** in the drop down list
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you created the storage account in the first exercise of this lab

8.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
9.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click one of available, low-priced VM sizes and then click **Select**.
10.   On the **Settings** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Availability set: **None**
  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**
  -   Virtual network: accept the default value, which creates a new virtual network
  -   Subnet: accept the default setting, which creates a new subnet named **default**
  -   Public IP address: accept the default value, which will create a new public IP address
  -   Network security group: accept the default value, which will create a new network security group allowing connectivity via SSH
  -   Extensions: **No extensions**
  -   Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**
  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**
  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

11.   On the **Summary** blade, click **Create**.
12.   Wait for the deployment to complete.


#### Task 4: Attach a managed data disk to an Azure VM

1.   In the Azure portal, on the hub menu, click **Resource Groups**.
2.   On the **Resource Groups** blade, click **10992B0201-LabRG**.
3.   On the **10992B0201-LabRG** blade, click **10992B0201-vm1**.
4.   On the **10992B0201-vm1** blade, click **Disks**.
5.   On the **10992B0201-vm1 - Disks** blade, click **+ Add data disk**.
6.   In the NAME drop-down list, click **datadisk01**, leave **HOST CACHING** entry with the default value of **None**, and click **Save**.
7.   Wait until the disk is successfully attached to the Azure VM.


#### Task 5: Identify and delete all the Azure resources used in the lab
  
1.   In the Azure portal, on the hub menu, click **Resource Groups**.
2.   On the **Resource Groups** blade, click **10992B0201-LabRG**.
3.   On the **10992B0201-LabRG** blade, click **Delete resource group**.
4.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10992B0201-LabRG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type **10992B0201-LabRG** and then click **Delete**.
5.   Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully uploaded the .vhd file to an Azure storage account. After the upload completes, you should have converted the uploaded .vhd file into a managed disk. Next, you should have deployed an Azure Linux VM and attached the managed disk to it as its data disk. Finally, you should have identified and removed all of the Azure resources that you created for this lab by using the Azure portal.


# Lab B: Moving containers between on-premises Hyper-V virtual machines and Azure virtual machines
  
## Exercise 1: Creating a Docker host by using Docker Machine

#### Task 1: Install Docker Toolbox for Windows
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer and browse to https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install
2.   On the **Install Docker for Windows** page, click **Download from Docker Store**.
3.   On the **Docker Community Edition for Windows** page, click **Please Login to Download**. If you do not have a **Docker account**, click **Create account**. On the **Welcome to Docker Store** page, create a new Docker ID. Note that you will need to provide a valid email address. Once you receive the verification email, click the link included in the email and click **Please Login to Download** again.
5.   Log in using your Docker ID.
6.   On the **Docker Community Edition for Windows** page, click **Get Docker**.
7.   When prompted whether to run or save **Docker for Windows Installer.exe**, click **Run**.
8.   In the **Installing Docker for Windows** window, accept the default setings and click **OK**
9.   Wait for the installation to complete and, in the **Installation succeeded** window, click **Close**.
10.   In the Internet Explorer, browse to https://github.com/docker/machine/releases/tag/v0.15.0  
11.   Click **docker-machine-Windows-x86_64.exe** and, when prompted, click **Save**. 
12.   Once the download completes, start File Explorer, browse to the Downloads folder, right-click **docker-machine-Windows-x86_64.exe** and click **Properties**.
13.   In the **Properties** dialog box, enable the **Unblock** checkbox and then click **OK**.
14.   In File Explorer, rename **docker-machine-Windows-x86_64.exe** to **docker-machine.exe**.
15.   In File Explorer, copy **docker-machine.exe** to **C:\Program Files\Docker\Docker\resources\bin**, overwriting the existing file.
16.   Sign out from **10992B-MIA-CL1**


#### Task 2: Create a Docker host in a Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine
  
1.   Sign back into **10992B-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   On MIA-CL1, close the **Welcome Docker is now up and running** window.
3.   On MIA-CL1, click **Start**, in the Start menu, expand the **Windows System** folder, right-click **Command Prompt**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and then click **Run as administrator**.
4.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

```
docker-machine create --driver hyperv --hyperv-virtual-switch "Microsoft Hyper-V Network Adapter - Virtual Switch" localdockervm
```

5.  Wait for the new Microsoft Hyper-V virtual machine to be provisioned. This might take a few minutes. If the boot2docker ISO image is out-of-date, Docker Machine will initiate download of the latest version.


#### Task 3: Create a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine by using Docker Machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
az login
```

2.   You will be presented with the message instructing you to open a browser at the page https://aka.ms/devicelogin and provide the code included in the message to authenicate. Start Internet Explorer and browse to https://aka.ms/devicelogin. 
3.   On the **Device Login** page, type the code included in the message. This will identify Microsoft Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface as the application attempting to authenticate. Click **Continue**. 
4.   In the sign-in windows that appears, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
5.   Note the message stating that you have signed in to the Microsoft Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface application on your device. Close the Internet Explorer window.
6.   If you have multiple subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account, to identify the subscription in which you are going to create a new Azure VM, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
az account show
```

7.   Note the value of the `id` property for each subscription in the output of the previous command. To specify the subscription in which you are going to create a virtual network, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command and then press Enter (replace `<subscription_id>` with the value of the `id` property of that subscription):

```
az account set --subscription "<subscription_id>"
```

8.   To identify Ubuntu images that you can use in this lab, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter (make sure to replace `<location>` with the name of an Azure region where you provisioned an Azure VM in the first lab of this module):

```
az vm image list-skus --location "<location>" --publisher Canonical --offer UbuntuServer --output table
```

9.   Identify the values appearing in the **Name** column in the output. Verify that **16.04.0-LTS** is available. If that is not the case, then, in step 12, replace **16.04.0-LTS** with the name of one of an available images.

10.   To create a new resource group, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command and press Enter (make sure to replace `<location>` with the name of the Azure region you used in step 8):

```
az group create --name 10992B0202-LabRG --location "<location>"
```

11.   To change the current directory to the local user profile, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter : 

```
cd %USERPROFILE%
```

12.   To provision a Docker host in an Azure VM, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following (replacing `<subscription_id>` with the value of your Azure subscription id you specified earlier in this task, replacing the `<location>` with the name of the Azure region where you provisioned the Azure VM in the first lab of this module, and `<vm_size>` with the size of that Azure VM), and then press Enter (make sure to use the lower case characters when specifying the virtual machine name): 

```
docker-machine create --driver azure --azure-ssh-user student --azure-subscription-id "<subscrption_id>" --azure-open-port 80 --azure-open-port 8080 --azure-image "Canonical:UbuntuServer:16.04.0-LTS:latest" --azure-location "<location>" --azure-resource-group "10992B0202-LabRG" --azure-size "<vm_size>" --azure-static-public-ip "10992b0202-vm1"
```

13.   You will be presented with the message instructing you to open a browser at the page https://aka.ms/devicelogin and provide the code included in the message to authenicate. Start Internet Explorer and browse to https://aka.ms/devicelogin. 
14.   On the **Device Login** page, type the code included in the message. This will identify Docker Machine for Azure as the application attempting to autheticate. Click **Continue**. 
15.   In the sign-in windows that appears, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
16.   Note the message stating that the Docker Machine for Azure would like to sign you in and read your profile and access Azure Service Management as you. Click **Accept**. 
17.   Note the message stating that you signed in to the Docker Machine for Azure application on your device. Close the Internet Explorer window.
18.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, monitor the progress of provisioning the Azure VM.
19.   Wait for the new Docker host Azure VM to be provisioned. 
20.   in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and press then Enter.

```
docker-machine ls
```

21.   Verify that the output includes both the Hyper-V virtual machine and the Azure VM. 
22.   in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

```
docker-machine env 10992b0202-vm1
```

23.   Review the output returned by the **docker-machine env** command.
24.   To configure the local shell environment, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

```
@FOR /f "tokens=*" %i IN ('docker-machine env 10992b0202-vm1') DO @%i
```

#### Task 4: Run a container in a Docker host running in a Hyper-V virtual machine
  
1.   On **MIA-CL1**, click **Start** and then click **Windows Administrative Tools**.
2.   In the **Administrative Tools** window, click **Hyper-V Manager**.
3.   In the **Hyper-V Manager** window, in the list of virtual machines, right-click **localdockervm**, and then click **Connect**.
4.   At the command prompt in the console of the **localdockervm** virtual machine, type the following command, and then press Enter:

```
docker run -d -p 80:80 --restart=always nginx
```

5.   Wait until the container for nginx is downloaded and started on the Docker host virtual machine. This might take a few minutes depending on the available bandwidth.

  > **Note:** The ability to download the nginx image and connect to the nginx-based container depends on the availability of DHCP in the lab environment.

6.   To obtain the IP address of the target virtual machine hosting the containerized application, type the following command at the command prompt in the console session to **localdockervm**, and then press Enter. 

```
ifconfig eth0
```

7.   Review the second line of the output and note the IP address following the **inet addr:** string.
8.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Welcome to nginx** page.


#### Task 5: Run a container in a Docker host running in an Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

```
docker run -d -p 80:80 --restart=always nginx
```

2.   To verify the successful outcome, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

```
docker ps
```

3.   To obtain the IP address of the target Azure VM hosting the containerized application, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

```
docker-machine ip 10992b0202-vm1
```

4.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Welcome to nginx** page.
5.   Leave the Internet Explorer window open.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully installed Docker Toolbox for Windows, created a Docker host in a Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine, created a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine by using Docker Machine, and run a sample containerized web server nginx on both Docker host virtual machines.


## Exercise 2: Deploying a private Docker Registry in Azure

  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure Container Registry

1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side, click **+ Create a resource**. 
5.   On the **New** blade, click **Containers**, and then click **Azure Container Registry**. 
6.   On the **Create container registry** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  -   Registry name: a unique name consisting of between 5 and 50 alphanumeric characters
  -   Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab
  -   Resource group: click **Create new** and, in the text box below, type **10992B0203-LabRG**
  -   Location : select any Azure location where you can create an Azure Container Registry, preferably the same one hosting the Azure VM you deployed earlier in this exercise
  -   Admin user: **Enable** (this allows you to use the registry name as username and admin user access key as password to access the registry)
  -   SKU : **Basic**

7.   Wait for the operation to complete.


#### Task 2: Identify Azure Container Registry authentication settings.

1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, click **All services**, in the **Filter** text box, type **Container registries**, and then, in the service menu, click **Container registries**.
2.   On the **Container registries** blade, click the Azure container registry you created in the previous task.
3.   On the container registry blade, click **Access keys**.
4.   Click the **Click to copy** icon next to the **password** entry. If prompted whether to allow the webpage to acces your Clipboard, click **Allow access**.
5.   Note the values of the **Username** and the **Login server** entries. The username should match the registry name and the login server name should consist of the registry name followed by the **.azurecr.io** suffix.


#### Task 3: Push an image to Azure Container Registry.

1.   On MIA-CL1, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, to log in to the Azure Container registry you created in the first task, type the following, replacing the `<user-name>`, `<password>`, and `<login-server>` entries with the values you identified in the previous task, and then press Enter: 

```
docker login --username <user-name> --password <password> <login-server>
```

2.   Ensure that you receive the **Login succeeded** message. Next, to pull an existing image from Docker Hub to the Azure Docker VM, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

```
docker pull microsoft/aci-helloworld
```

3.   Wait for the image to be downloaded to the Docker Azure VM. Next, to tag the image with the Azure Container registry name, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified in the previous task, and then press Enter: 

```
docker tag microsoft/aci-helloworld <login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1
```

4.   To push the tagged image to the Azure Container registry, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified in the previous task, and then press Enter: 

```
docker push <login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1
```

5.   Wait for the image to be pushed to the registry. Next, to view the images stored in the Azure Container registry, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal, on the container registry blade, click **Repositories** and note that the list includes the **aci-helloworld** repository.


#### Task 4: Download and deploy images from the Azure Container Registry

1.   On MIA-CL1, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, to pull an image from the Azure Container registry, type the following, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified earlier in this exercise, and then press Enter: 

```
docker pull <login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1
```

2.   Note that, in this case, the image does not need to be downloaded, since its up-to-date version is already present on the target Docker Azure VM. 
3.   Next, to deploy the image downloaded from the Azure Container registry, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified earlier in this exercise, and then press Enter: 

```
docker run -d --restart=always -p 8080:80 <login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1
```

4.   To verify that the image has been successfully deployed, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

```
docker ps
```

5.   Note that the output includes the `aci-helloworld:v1` image. 
6.   To access the running container, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the **Welcome to nginx!** page, append **:8080** directly after the IP address of the Azure VM appearing in the address bar, and then press Enter. Verify that you see the **Welcome to Azure Container Instances** page.


#### Task 5: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **Resource groups**.
2.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click **10992B0202-LabRG**.
3.   On the **10992B0202-LabRG** blade, click **Delete**.
4.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10992B0202-LabRG"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
5.   Repeat the steps 2-4 to delete the resource group **10992B0202-LabRG**. 
6.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.
3.   In the **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a private Docker registry in Azure.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
