# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Integrating with Azure Storage and data services
# Lab: Implementing the Azure Recovery Services agent-based backups
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing your Microsoft Azure subscription for the implementation
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure Recovery Services vault
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, open  **Internet Explorer** and browse to
        [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com)
      . 
2.   If you are prompted to sign in, then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the  **Azure** portal, click **New**. In the search box of the  **New** blade, type **Backup** and then press Enter.
4.   On the  **Everything** blade, click **Backup and** **Site Recovery** **(OMS)**.
5.   On the  **Backup and Site Recovery (OMS)** blade, click **Create**.
6.   On the  **Recovery Services vault** blade, specify the following details, and then click **Create**:
  -   Name:  **adatum-RSVault**

  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group: click  **Create new** and, in the text box below, type **RSVaultRG**

  -   Location: Azure region closest to the classroom location

  -   Pin to dashboard: selected

7.   Wait for the vault to be provisioned. 


#### Task 2: Configure backup redundancy
  
1.   If not already displayed, in the  **Azure** portal, on the dashboard, click **adatum-RSVault**.
2.   On the  **MANAGE** section of the **Settings** blade, click **Backup Infrastructure**.
3.   On the  **Backup Infrastructure** blade, click **Backup Configuration**.
4.   On the  **Backup Configuration** blade, click **Locally-redundant**.
5.   Click  **Save**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created and configured the Azure Recovery Services vault.


## Exercise 2: Configuring a virtual machine for Azure Recovery Services agent-based backups
  
#### Task 1: Download the Azure Recovery Services agent and vault credentials
  
1.   In the  **Azure** portal, scroll to the **Settings** blade of the **adatum-RSVault** recovery service vault.
2.   In the  **GETTING STARTED** section of the **Settings** blade, click **Backup**. This opens the  **Getting started with Backup** blade and **Backup Goal** blade
3.   On the  **Backup Goal** blade, in the **Where is your workload running?** drop-down list, click **On-premises**.
4.   In the  **What do you want to backup?** drop-down list, click **Files and folders**.
5.   Click  **OK**.
6.   On the  **Prepare infrastructure** blade, click the **Download Agent for Windows Server or Windows Client** link.
7.   When you receive a prompt to choose whether to run or save the  **MARSAgentInstaller.exe** file, click **Save**.


#### Task 2: Install the Azure Recovery Services agent
  
1.   In the  **Internet Explorer** window displaying the **Azure** portal, in the notification bar at the bottom of the window, click **Open folder**.
2.   In the  **File Explorer**, in the  **Downloads** folder, double-click **MARSAgentInstaller** file. This will launch the **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent Setup Wizard**.
3.   If the  **Open File - Security Warning** dialog box appears, click **Run**. 
4.   On the  **Installation Settings** page of the wizard, accept the default settings, and then click **Next**.
5.   On the  **Proxy Configuration** page of the wizard, accept the default settings, and then click **Next**.
6.   On the  **Installation** page of the wizard, click **Install**.
7.   After the installation completes, on the  **Installation** page of the **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent** **Setup** **Wizard**, click  **Proceed to Registration**. This will launch the  **Register Server Wizard**.


#### Task 3: Register Recovery Services agent with the vault
  
1.   Switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window that displays the Azure portal and on the **Prepare infrastructure** blade, click **Download**.
2.   When prompted whether to open or save the file with the extension  **.VaultCredentials**, click  **Save**.
3.   Switch to the  **Register Server Wizard**. 
4.   On the  **Vault Identification** page of the wizard, click **Browse**.
5.   In the  **Select Vault Credentials** window, browse to the **Downloads** folder, click the file with the extension **.VaultCredentials**, and then click  **Open**.
6.   Wait for the vault credentials validation to complete, and then click  **Next**.
7.   On the  **Encryption Setting** page of the wizard, click **Generate Passphrase**.
8.   Click  **Browse** button next to the **Enter a location to save the passphrase** text box.
9.   In the  **Browse For Folder** dialog box, navigate to the **Documents** folder, and then click **OK**.
10.   Click  **Finish**.
11.   Wait for the registration to complete. Ensure that the  **Launch Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent** check box is selected, and then click **Close**. This will open the  **Microsoft Azure Backup** window.


#### Task 4: Configure throttling options
  
1.   In the  **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, in the **Actions** pane, click **Change Properties**.
2.   In the  **Microsoft Azure Backup Properties** window, click the **Throttling** tab.
3.   Click the  **Enable internet bandwidth usage throttling for backup operations** **and then click** **OK**. 
4.   In the  **Microsoft Azure Backup** dialog box, click **OK**.
>  **Note:** Note that you have the options of adjusting the bandwidth and the definition of what constitutes work and nonwork hours.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully installed and configured Azure Recovery Services agent on your lab virtual machine and registered it with Azure Recovery Services vault.


## Exercise 3: Testing the backup of the virtual machine files and folders
  
#### Task 1: Configure the backup schedule
  
1.   In the  **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, in the **Actions** pane, click **Schedule Backup**. This launches the  **Schedule Backup Wizard**.
2.   On the  **Getting started** page of the wizard, click **Next**.
3.   On the  **Select Items to Backup** page of the wizard, click **Add Items**.
4.   In the  **Select Items** dialog box, navigate to the **C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc** folder, and then click the check box next to the **hosts** entry. Ensure that this is the only entry selected, and then click **OK**.
5.   On the  **Select Items to Backup** page of the wizard, click **Next**.
6.   On the  **Specify Backup Schedule** page of the wizard, change the entry in the first drop-down list to **11:00 PM**, and then click  **Next**.
7.   On the  **Select Retention Policy** page of the wizard, accept the default settings, and then click **Next**.
8.   On the  **Choose Initial Backup Type** page of the wizard, ensure that the **Automatically over the network** option is selected, and then click **Next**.
9.   On the  **Confirmation** page of the wizard, click **Finish**.
10.   On the  **Modify Backup Progress** page of the wizard, click **Close**.


#### Task 2: Perform manual backup
  
1.   In the  **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, in the **Actions** pane, click **Back** **Up** **Now**. This launches the  **Back** **Up** **Now** **Wizard**.
2.   On the  **Confirmation** page of the wizard, click **Back Up**. Notice that you can change the properties of the server settings, but not the list of backup items.
3.   On the  **Backup** **Progress** page of the wizard, monitor the status of the backup process. After it completes, click **Close**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully tested backup of files by using the Azure Recovery Services agent.


## Exercise 4: Testing the restore of the virtual machine files and folders
  
#### Task 1: Perform the restore
  
1.   In the **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, in the **Actions** pane, click **Recover Data**. This launches the **Recover Data Wizard**.
2.   On the **Getting Started** page of the wizard, ensure that the **This server** **(mia-cl1.)** option is selected, and then click **Next**.
3.   On the **Select Recovery Mode** page of the wizard, ensure that the **Individual files and folders** option is selected, and then click **Next**.
4.   On the **Select Volume and Date** page of the wizard, click the **C:\\** entry in the **Select the volume** drop-down list and click **Mount**. Since there is only a single backup, the date of the backup is automatically selected.
5.   On the **Browse and Recover Files** page, note that the recovery volume has been mounted as the **E:\\** drive and click **Browse**. This will open a File Explorer window. 
6.   In the File Explorer window, navigate to the **Windows\\System32\\drivers\\etc** folder, right-click the **hosts** file, and, in the right-click menu, click **Copy**
7.   In the File Explorer window, right-click the **Documents** folder and, in the right-click menu, click **Paste**. 
8.   Switch back to the **Browse and Recover Files** of the **Recover Data Wizard** and click **Unmount**.
9.   When prompted, in the **Confirm Recovery Volume Unmount** dialog box, click **Yes**.
10.   Back in the **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, verify that the recovery job is marked as completed.


#### Task 2: Verify the results
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, open  **File Explorer**, and browse to the  **C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc** folder.
2.   Notice that the folder contains a file, the name of which includes the date and time of the restore followed by the  **Copy of hosts** suffix.
3.   Open this file and the  **hosts** file in Notepad and verify that their content is identical.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   Switch to the Internet Explorer window that displays the Azure portal. 
2.   In the  **Azure** portal, scroll to the **Settings** blade of the **adatum-RSVault** recovery service vault.
3.   In the  **MANAGE** section of the **Settings** blade, click **Backup Infrastructure**. 
4.   On the  **Backup Infrastructure** blade, click **Protected Servers**. 
5.   On the  **Protected Servers** blade, click **Azure Backup Agent** and make sure that the entry representing your lab computer is selected.
6.   Click ellipsis (...) on the right side of the lab computer entry, and then on the pop-up menu, click  **Delete**.
7.   On the  **Delete** blade, in the **TYPE THE SERVER NAME** text box, type **MIA-CL1.** and then click **Delete**.
    >  **Note:** Make sure to include the trailing period when typing the server name.

8.   Scroll back to the blade of the  **adatum-RSVault** recovery service vault.
9.   Click  **Delete**.
10.   When you receive the prompt asking you for confirmation, click  **Yes**.
11.   On the hub menu of the Azure portal, click  **Resource groups**.
12.   On the  **Resource groups** blade, click **RSVaultRG**.
13.   On the  **RSVaultRG** blade, click **Delete**.
14.   On the  **Are you sure you want to delete "RSVaultRG"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
15.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully restored the backup that you created. You should also have deleted the vault and the corresponding resource group from your Azure subscription. 



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
