# Module 3: Integrating with Azure virtual networks
# Lab: Implementing a point-to-site VPN by using Azure Resource Manager
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wishes to implement hybrid networking between an Azure virtual network and its on-premises computers. While the longer-term plan is to set up either a site-to-site VPN or ExpressRoute, at this point you have been asked to test the direct network connectivity between the two environments by implementing a point-to-site VPN from a virtual machine running on one of your Hyper-V hosts.

### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create an Azure virtual network and prepare it for a point-to-site VPN provisioning
-   Configure point-to-site VPN
-   Test point-to-site VPN

  > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 70 minutes

Virtual machine: **10992B-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In **Hyper-V Manager**, click **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In **Hyper-V Manager**, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In **Hyper-V Manager**, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign into **10992B-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Preparing a Microsoft Azure subscription for implementing a point-to-site VPN
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for setting up a test point-to-site VPN environment, you must first create a virtual network in Azure and configure networking prerequisites, including the gateway subnet and the public IP address for the VPN gateway.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure virtual network
2.   Create the gateway subnet


#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual network
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   Browse to the Azure portal and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal, create a new virtual network with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10992B0301-vnet**
  -   Address space: **10.3.0.0/20**
  -   Subscription: select the name of the Azure subscription which you will be using for this lab
  -   Resource group: create a new resource group named **10992B0301-LabRG**
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you have the ability to provision virtual networks, preferably close to the lab location
  -   Subnet: **subnet-0**
  -   Address range: **10.3.0.0/24**
  -   Service endpoints (Preview): **Disabled**

4.   Wait until the virtual network is provisioned. 


#### Task 2: Create the gateway subnet
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, navigate to the newly created virtual network.
2.   From the Azure portal, create a gateway subnet with the IP address range of **10.3.15.224/27**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully used the Azure portal to create a virtual network including the gateway subnet. 


## Exercise 2: Completing the point-to-site VPN setup
  
### Scenario
  
With Azure prerequisites for your point-to-site VPN test, now you need to complete the remaining components of the point-to-site VPN test environment. These include a test self-signed root and client certificates, the Azure VPN gateway root certificate, and a point-to-site VPN gateway. You also need to test the process of exporting a client certificate. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create the VPN gateway
2.   Generate the root and client certificates
3.   Export the private key of the client certificate
4.   Configure the Point-to-Site VPN gateway


#### Task 1: Create the VPN gateway

1.   On MIA-CL1, from the Azure poral, create a virtual network gateway with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10992B0301-gw**
  -   Gateway type: **VPN**
  -   VPN type: **Route-based**
  -   SKU: **VpnGw1**
  -   Enable active-active mode: leave the checkbox cleared
  -   Virtual network: **10992B0301-vnet**
  -   First IP configuration: **10992B0301-gw-ip**
  -   Configure BGP ASN: leave the checkbox cleared
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource group: **10992B0301-LabRG**
  -   Location: the name of an Azure region where you created the virtual network in the previous exercise

2.   Do not wait for the gateway to be provisioned but instead proceed to the next task.

  > **Note:** Provisioning of the VPN gateway can take up to 45 minutes.


#### Task 2: Generate the root and client certificates

1.   On MIA-CL1, start **Windows PowerShell ISE** as administrator
2.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, open the **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\New-10992BP2SVPNCerts.ps1** file.
3.   Review the content of the script and execute it.


#### Task 3: Export the private key of the client certificate

1.   On MIA-CL1, from the **Certificates - Current User** Microsoft Management Console snap-in, export the private key of the **10992BLabP2SChildCert** certficate with the default format. Set the password protecting the private key to **Pa55w.rd** and store the private key in the **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Client1Certificate.pfx** file. 
2.   Use the **Get-Item** cmdlet to verify that the file **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Client1Certificate.pfx** has been successfully created. 

  > **Note:** At this point, you would securely copy the client certificate to a client computer and import it into the **Personal** certificate store of the primary user of that computer. You can perfom the import by using the Certificates snap-in of the Microsoft Management Console. These steps are not included in the lab, because the lab computer already has the client certificate installed.
  
  > **Note:** Before you proceed to the next task, verify that the VPN gateway has been successfully provisioned. 


#### Task 4: Configure the Point-to-Site VPN gateway

1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, navigate to the **10992B0301-gw - Point-to-site configuration** blade.
2.   From the **10992B0301-gw - Point-to-site configuration** blade, specify the following settings:

  -   Address pool: **10.255.255.0/24**
  -   SSL VPN (SSTP): enabled
  -   IKEv2 VPN: disabled
  -   Authentication type: **Azure certificate** 
  -   Root certificates NAME: **10992BLabP2SRootCert**

3.   To retrieve the root certificate, convert it into Base64 format, and copy it into Clipboard, switch to the console pane of the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, and run the following commands:

```
$rootCerText = Get-ChildItem -Path 'Cert:\CurrentUser\My' | Where-Object {$_.Subject -eq 'CN=10992BLabP2SRootCert'}
$rootCertTextB64 = [System.Convert]::ToBase64String($rootCerText.RawData)
Set-Clipboard -Value $rootCertTextB64
```

5.   Paste the content of Clipboard to the **PUBLIC CERTIFICATE DATA** text box on the **10992B0301-gw - Point-to-site configuration** blade.
6.   Save the configuration. 

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created a point-to-site VPN gateway, generated a self-signed root and client certificate, exported the public key of the root certificate, exported the private key of the client certificate, and configured the point-to-site VPN gateway.



## Exercise 3: Testing a point-to-site VPN from an on-premises virtual machine
  
### Scenario
  
You have completed the test deployment of the point-to-site VPN components. Now you need to test connecting from your test computer to the Azure virtual network by using a point-to-site VPN.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Download and install the VPN client configuration package
2.   Establish a point-to-site VPN from the on-premises virtual machine
3.   Identify and delete all lab resources


#### Task 1: Download and install the VPN client configuration package
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, from the **10992B0301-gw - Point-to-site configuration** blade, download the VPN client package in the form of the **10992B0301-gw.zip** file.
2.   Extract the content of the **10992B0301-gw.zip** file into the **Downloads** folder.
3.   Execute **VpnClientSetupAmd64.exe** file residing in the extracted **WindowsAmd64** folder. 
4.   Wait for the installation to complete. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 2: Establish a point-to-site VPN from the on-premises virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, navigate to the **VPN** tab of the of **Network &amp; Internet** settings of the **Settings** app.
2.   From the **Network &amp; Internet** interface, connect to **10992B0301-vnet** Azure virtual network.
3.   Once you successfully connect, use the **Get-NetIPConfiguration** to identify the IP configuration of MIA-CL1. Notice the IPv4 address entry for **10992B0301-vnet** interface alias. It should contain the IP address from the VPN client IP address pool of **10.255.255.0/24**.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab resources
  
1.   From the Azure portal, delete the **10992B0301-LabRG** resource group.
2.   Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully downloaded and installed the VPN client configuration package and established a point-to-site VPN from your lab computer.


  
**Question** 
What are the key steps for implementing a point-to-site VPN?

**Question** 
If you have on-premises Linux virtual machines, can you initiate a point-to-site VPN connection?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
