# Module 7: Integrating operations and application monitoring and management
# Lab: Implementing Azure Automation
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation wishes to minimize the administrative overhead of their on-premises Windows Server computers as much as possible. For this reason, as part of A. Datum Corporation's evaluation of integration with Microsoft Azure, your manager has asked you to test the hybrid Azure Automation features. As part of your tests, you will run a custom Windows PowerShell script on an on-premises virtual machine by using the Hybrid Runbook Worker functionality.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create and configure an Operations Management Suite workspace and an Azure Automation account.
-   Configure an on-premises computer as a Hybrid Runbook Worker.
-   Run a runbook on a Hybrid Runbook Worker and identify the outcome.

  > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 40 minutes

Virtual machine: **10992B-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign in to 10992B-MIA-CL1 by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
### Scenario
  
In order to test hybrid Azure Automation features that A. Datum Corporation wishes to implement, you first need to implement and configure an Operations Management Suite workspace. Since you already have an Azure subscription, you will use its capabilities to accomplish your objective. You will also provision an Automation account and create a sample automation runbook to use in your tests

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Automation Account
2.   Create an Operations Management Suite workspace
3.   Add the Automation Hybrid Worker and Automation &amp; Control solutions to the Operations Management Suite workspace
4.   Create a runbook


#### Task 1: Create an Automation Account

  > **Note:** Identify an Azure region where you can provision both a Log Analytics workspace and an Azure Automation account. To determine the complete list of such regions, refer to https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/regions/services/. At the time of authoring this course, such locations include Australia Southeast, Canada Central, Central India, Japan East, Southeast Asia, UK South, US Gov Virginia, West Central US, and West Europe. 
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   Browse to the Azure portal and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   Create a new **Automation** account with the following settings:
 
  -   Name: **C10992B0701-LabAA**
  -   Subscription: select the name of the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab
  -   Resource group: create a new resource group named **10992B0701-LabRG**
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you can create an Automation account and a Log Analytics workspace
  -   Create Azure Run As account: **No**
  -   Pin to dashboard: check the checkbox

4.   Wait until the service is provisioned. This should take about a minute.


#### Task 2: Create an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   Create a new **OMS Workspace** with the following settings:

  -   OMS Workspace: a unique, valid name of a new workspace 
  -   Subscription: the name of the same Azure subscription you chose in the previous task
  -   Resource group: **10992B0701-LabRG**
  -   Location: the name of the Azure region where you provision the Automation account in the previous task of this exercise
  -   Pricing tier: **Free**
  -   Pin to dashboard: enabled

2.   Wait until the service is provisioned. This should take about a minute.
3.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the newly created OMS workspace.
4.   From the OMS workspace blade, navigate to the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal.


#### Task 3: Add the Automation Hybrid Worker and Automation &amp; Control solutions to the Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   In the Internet Explorer window, in the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, navigate to **Solutions Gallery**.
2.   Add the **Automation Hybrid Worker** solution.
3.   Add the **Automation &amp; Control** **Change Tracking** and **Update Management** solutions. 
4.   Configure **Automation &amp; Control** workspace by integrating it with the Automation account you created in the first task of this exercise.
5.   Leave the Internet Explorer tab displaying the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal open.


#### Task 4: Create a runbook
  
1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **C10992B0701-LabAA** Automation account. 
2.   From the **C10992B0701-LabAA** blade, import the F:\\Allfiles\\Mod07\\Labfiles\\New-10992Workflow.ps1 script as a Windows PowerShell workflow-based runbook.
3.   Review the content of the workflow, and then publish the runbook.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created an OMS workspace. You should have also added the Azure Automation &amp; Control solution to your workspace, created a new Azure Automation account and imported a sample Windows PowerShell Workflow-based runbook.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an on-premises computer as a Hybrid Runbook Worker
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have configured all the Azure components that are necessary to perform your tests, it is time to configure your on-premises test computer. You will need to install the Microsoft Management Agent so that your test computer can communicate with OMS and the Automation account. You will also need to install the runbook environment and connect it to Azure Automation. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install the Microsoft Management Agent on the lab virtual machine
2.   Install the runbook environment and connect to Azure Automation


#### Task 1: Install the Microsoft Management Agent on the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Internet Explorer window, in the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, navigate to the **Connected Sources** pane of the **Settings** page.

  > **Note:** You might need to refresh the page if your connection timed out

2.   Download the Microsoft Management Agent (64-bit) for Windows to MIA-CL1 and start the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard.
3.   In the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, on the **Agent Setup Options** page, select the **Connect the agent to Azure Log Analytics (OMS)** checkbox.
4.   Copy the **WORKSPACE ID** and the **PRIMARY KEY** from the **Connected Sources** pane of the **Settings** page in the OMS portal.
5.   On the **Azure Log Analytics** page of the wizard, paste each value, respectively, to the **Workspace ID** textbox and the **Workspace Key** textbox.
6.   On the same **Azure Log Analytics** page of the wizard, ensure that the entry corresponding to the Azure cloud hosting your subscription (**Azure Commercial** or **Azure US Government**) is selected in the the **Azure Cloud** drop down list.
7.   Complete the installation of the agent.


#### Task 2: Install the runbook environment and connect to Azure Automation
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal and navigate to the **C10992B0701-LabAA** Automation account blade.
2.   Copy the values of the **URL** and **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entries of the **C10992B0701-LabAA** Automation account into Notepad.
3.   On MIA-CL1, start **Windows PowerShell** as administrator.
4.   Identify the version of the Azure Automation agent component installed on MIA-CL1.
5.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, import `C:\Program Files\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\Agent\AzureAutomation\$version\HybridRegistration\HybridRegistration.psd1`, where `$version` represents the version of the Azure Automation agent component installed on MIA-CL1.
6.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, add MIA-CL1 as a Hybrid Runbook worker to the OMS workspace by running the following command (replacing `<url>` and `<key>` with the values of the **URL** and **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entries that you copied to Notepad):

```
Add-HybridRunbookWorker -GroupName '10992B0701-LabWG' -Url <url> -Key <key>
```

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully installed the Microsoft Management Agent on your lab computer and installed the runbook environment and connected the Hybrid Runbook Worker component to the Azure Automation service.


## Exercise 3: Running a runbook on a Hybrid Runbook Worker and examining the outcome
  
### Scenario
  
Finally, with all the components in place, you are ready to perform your testing. You will start the sample runbook from the on-premises lab virtual machine and then initiate its execution from the Azure portal. You will examine results of both of these actions. Finally, to minimize the cost of your testing, you will identify and delete all the Azure resources that you created in this lab.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Start the runbook from the lab virtual machine
2.   Start the runbook from the Azure portal
3.   Examine the outcome of the runbook execution
4.   Identify and delete all lab Azure resources


#### Task 1: Start the runbook from the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, sign in to your Azure subscription as the Service Administrator by running `Add-AzureRmAccount`
2.   From the the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, start the Azure automation runbook `Write-10992HelloWorld` with the parameter `Name='AdatumLabWorld (local)'` on MIA-CL1 by running the following command:

```
Start-AzureRmAutomationRunbook -AutomationAccountName C10992B0701-LabAA -Name Write-10992HelloWorld -RunOn 10992B0701-LabWG -ResourceGroupName 10992B0701-LabRG -Parameters @{Name='AdatumLabWorld (local)'}
```


#### Task 2: Start the runbook from the Azure portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal, and then from the **C10992B0701-LabAA** blade, start the **Write-10992HelloWorld** runbook with the following settings:

  -   Parameters NAME: **AdatumLabWorld (from the Azure Portal)**
  -   Run on: **Hybrid Worker**
  -   Choose Hybrid Worker group: **10992B0701-LabWG**.

2.   Monitor the job status as it changes from **Queued** through **Started** and to **Completed**. Verify that there were no errors or warnings.


#### Task 3: Examine the outcome of the runbook execution
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, view the listing of jobs executed in the previous tasks of this exercise.
2.   View the streams generated by the most recent job.


#### Task 4: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, navigate to the **Resource groups** blade.
2.   From the **Resource group** blade, delete the **10992B0701-LabRG** resource group 
3.   Restore the default Azure portal dashboard settings.
4.   Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully started the Automation runbook from the lab virtual machine as well as from the Azure portal and verified that both of them completed successfully. You also removed all resources you created in this lab and discarded all custom modifications to the Azure portal dashboard.


**Question** 
What is the reason that you did not have to create the Run As Azure Automation account in the lab?


**Question** 
How can you determine the outcome of Azure Automation jobs running on Hybrid Runbook workers?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
