# Module 4: Integrating with Azure Storage and data services
# Lab: Implementing the Azure Recovery Services agent-based backups
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation plans to use Azure to store their file system backups of on-premises Windows virtual machines to eliminate dependency on tape backups. For this reason, as part of A. Datum's evaluation of integration with Microsoft Azure, you have been asked to test the Azure Recovery Services agent-based backup of a virtual machine running on one of your Hyper-V hosts.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Prepare an Azure subscription for implementing Azure Recovery Services agent-based backups.
-   Configure an on-premises computer for the Azure Recovery Services agent-based backups.
-   Backup of files and folders by using Azure Recovery Services agent.
-   Restore of files and folders by using Azure Recovery Services agent.

  > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machine: **10992B-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign into **10992B-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Preparing your Azure subscription for implementing Azure Backup
  
### Scenario
  
Before you can test the Azure Recovery Services agent-based backup of a virtual machine running on one of your Hyper-V hosts, you must first create and configure the Azure Recovery Services vault.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure Recovery Services vault
2.   Configure backup redundancy


#### Task 1: Create an Azure Recovery Services vault
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer and browse to the Azure portal. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure portal, create a new Recovery Services vault with the following settings:

  -   Name: **RS10992B0401-vault**
  -   Subscription: select the name of the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab
  -   Resource group: click **Create new** and type **10992B0401-LabRG** as the name of the new resource group
  -   Location: select any Azure region where you can create a recovery services vault, preferably close to the lab location
  -   Pin to dashboard: leave the checkbox unchecked

3.   Wait for the vault to be provisioned. 


#### Task 2: Configure backup redundancy
  
1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **RS10992B0401-vault**.
2.   From the **RS10992B0401-vault** blade, set the storage replication type of the backup configuration of the **RS10992B0401-vault** Recovery Services vault to **Locally-redundant**.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created and configured the Azure Recovery Services vault.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an on-premises computer for Azure Recovery Services agent-based backups
  
### Scenario
  
With the Azure Recovery Services vault in place, you must now install the Azure Recovery Services agent on your on-premises test virtual machine and register it with the vault.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Download the Azure Recovery Services agent
2.   Install the Azure Recovery Services agent
3.   Download vault credentials and register Recovery Services agent with the vault
4.   Configure throttling options


#### Task 1: Download the Azure Recovery Services agent
  
1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **RS10992B0401-vault** blade.
2.   From the **RS10992B0401-vault** blade, set the backup goal to the following settings:

  -   Where is your workload running?: **On-premises**
  -   What do you want to backup?: **Files and folders**

3.   From the **Prepare infrastructure** blade, download the Recovery Services agent to the Downloads folder on the lab virtual machine.


#### Task 2: Install the Azure Recovery Services agent
  
1.   Use File Explorer to navigate to the location of the downloaded Recovery Services agent 
2.   Run the **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent Setup Wizard** with the default settings. 
3.   After the installation completes, from the **Installation** page of the **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent Setup Wizard**, launch the **Register Server Wizard**.


#### Task 3: Download vault credentials and register Recovery Services agent with the vault
  
1.   Switch to the Azure portal and, from the **Prepare Infrastructure** blade, download the vault credentials file to the Downloads folder on the lab virtual machine.
2.   Switch to the **Register Server Wizard** and on the **Vault Identification** page, point to the **.VaultCredentials** you downloaded. Ensure that the validation completes successfully.
3.   From the **Encryption Setting** page of the wizard, generate a passphrase and save it in the **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod04\\Labfiles\\** folder.
4.   Complete the registration and launch Microsoft Azure Backup.


#### Task 4: Configure throttling options
  
1.   From the **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, navigate to the **Microsoft Azure Backup Properties** window.
2.   In the **Microsoft Azure Backup Properties** window, enable Internet bandwidth usage throttling for backup operations.

  > **Note:** Note that you have the options of adjusting the bandwidth and the definition of what constitutes work and nonwork hours.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully installed and configured Azure Recovery Services agent on your lab virtual machine and registered it with Azure Recovery Services vault.


## Exercise 3: Testing a backup of the virtual machine files and folders
  
### Scenario
  
With all the prerequisites successfully completed, you are ready to test the backup of your on-premises test virtual machine. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Configure a backup schedule
2.   Perform a manual backup


#### Task 1: Configure a backup schedule
  
1.   From the **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, start **Schedule Backup Wizard**.
2.   Complete the **Schedule Backup Wizard** with the following settings:

  -   Item to back up: **C:\\Windows\\System32\\Drivers\\etc\\hosts**
  -   Backup schedule: **once a day at 11:00 PM**
  -   Default retention policy
  -   Default initial backup type setting


#### Task 2: Perform a manual backup
  
1.   From the **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, launch the **Back Up Now Wizard**.
2.   On the **Backup Progress** page of the wizard, monitor the status of the backup process. After it completes, close the wizard.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully tested backup of files by using the Azure Recovery Services agent.


## Exercise 4: Testing a restore of the virtual machine files and folders
  
### Scenario
  
In order to verify that the backup was successful, you must next test the restore process and examine the results. Finally, to minimize the cost of your testing, you will identify and delete all the Azure resources that you created in this lab.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Perform a restore
2.   Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
3.   Prepare for the next lab


#### Task 1: Perform a restore
  
1.   From the **Microsoft Azure Backup** window, launch the **Recover Data Wizard**.
2.   Complete the wizard by using the following steps:

  -   Select the most recent backup of the files and folders on the C: volume
  -   Mount the backup
  -   Use File Explorer to copy the restored file to the Documents folder on the lab virtual machine
  -   Unmount the backup.

3.   Examine the status of the recovery job and verify that is marked as completed. 

#### Task 2: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   Switch to the Azure portal and navigate to the **RS10992B0401-vault - Backup Infrastructure** blade.
2.   From the **RS10992B0401-vault - Backup Infrastructure** blade, navigate to the **Protected Servers (Azure Backup Ageent)** blade.
3.   From the **Protected Servers (Azure Backup Ageent)** blade, delete the registration of the lab virtual machine.
4.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **RS10992B0401-vault** blade.
5.   From the **RS10992B0401-vault** blade, delete the vault. 
6.   Delete the **10992B0401-LabRG** resource group.
7.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.
3.   In the **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully restored the backup that you created. You should also have deleted the vault and the corresponding resource group from your Azure subscription. 

  
**Question** 
After you install the Azure Recovery Services agent on the lab virtual machine, what additional step did you have to perform in order to perform an on-demand backup? 



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
