# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Integrating operations and application monitoring and management
# Lab: Implementing Azure Automation
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
#### Task 1: Create an Automation Account
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the hub menu, click  **New**, in the  **search** text box type **Automation**, and then press Enter.
3.   On the  **Everything** blade, click **Automation**.
4.   On the  **Automation** blade, click **Create**.
5.   On the  **Add Automation Account** blade, specify the following, and then click **Create**:
  -   Name:  **AdatumAutomation**.

  -   Subscription: Specify the name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group: click the  **Create new** option, and then in the text box below, type **OMSRG**

  -   Location: Specify the Azure region provided by the instructor

  -   Create Azure Run As account: No

  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the checkbox cleared

6.   Wait until the service is provisioned. This should take about a minute.


#### Task 2: Create an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   In the Internet Explorer window, in the hub menu, click  **New**, in the  **search** text box type **Log analytics**, and then press Enter.
2.   On the  **Everything** blade, click **Log Analytics**.
3.   On the  **Log Analytics** blade, click **Create**.
4.   On the  **OMS Workspace** blade, specify the following, and then click **OK**:
  -   OMS Workspace:  **oms10992** followed by a random sequence of up to 16 characters. The name must be globally unique.

  -   Subscription: Specify the name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group: click the  **Use existing** option, and then in the text box below, type **OMSRG**

  -   Location: Specify the Azure region provided by the instructor

  -   Pricing tier:  **Free**

  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the checkbox cleared

5.   Wait until the service is provisioned. This should take about a minute.
6.   In the hub menu, click  **More services**. 
7.   In the list of services, click  **Log Analytics**. 
8.   On the  **Log Analytics** blade, click the newly created OMS workspace.
9.   On the  **OMS workspace** blade, click **OMS Portal**. This opens another tab in Internet Explorer displaying the  **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal.


#### Task 3: Add the Automation Hybrid Worker and Automation &amp; Control solutions to the Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   In the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, click the **Solutions Gallery** tile.
2.   In  **Solutions Gallery**, click  **Automation Hybrid Worker**.
3.   Scroll to the left, and then under the  **Automation Hybrid Worker** label, click **Add**. 
4.   In the  **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, click the **Solutions Gallery** tile
5.   In  **Solutions Gallery**, click  **Automation** **&amp; Control**.
6.   On the  **Automation** **&amp; Control** page, keep the **Change Tracking** and **Update Management** checkboxes selected, and click **Configure Workspace**. 
7.   On the  **Automation Account** page, ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected, in the drop-down below, type **AdatumAutomation**, and then click  **OK**.
8.   Click  **Close**.
9.   Leave the tab displaying the  **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal open.


#### Task 4: Create a runbook
  
1.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click  **More services**.
2.   In the list of services, click  **Automation Accounts**.
3.   On the  **Automation Accounts** blade, click **AdatumAutomation**.
4.   On the  **Settings** blade of the **AdatumAutomation** Azure Automation account, click **Runbooks**.
5.   On the  **Runbooks** blade, click **Add a runbook**.
6.   On the  **Add Runbook** blade, click **Import an existing runbook**.
7.   On the  **Import** blade, click the folder icon next to the **Runbook file**.
8.   In the  **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to the **D:\Mod07\Labfiles** folder, click **New-10992Workflow.ps1**, and then click  **Open**.
9.   Ensure that  **PowerShell Workflow** appears in the **Runbook type** drop-down list, and then click **Create**.
10.   On the  **Runbooks** blade, click the name of the newly imported runbook.
11.   On the runbook blade, click  **Edit**.
12.   On the  **Edit PowerShell Workflow Runbook** blade, review the content of the workflow, click **Publish**, and then when prompted whether to proceed, click  **Yes**. 

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully created an OMS workspace. You should have also added the Azure Automation &amp; Control solution to your workspace, created a new Azure Automation account and imported a sample Windows PowerShell Workflow-based runbook.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an on-premises computer as a Hybrid Runbook Worker
  
#### Task 1: Install the Microsoft Management Agent on the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, click the **Home** icon followed by **Settings**.
    >  **Note:** You might need to refresh the page if your connection times out

2.   On the  **Overview -&gt; Settings** dashboard, click **Connected Sources**.
3.   Ensure that  **Windows Server** tab is selected and click **Download Window Agent (64-bit)**.
4.   When prompted whether to run or save  **MMASetup-AMD64.exe**, click  **Run**. This will start the  **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard. If prompted by the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**. 
5.   On the  **Welcome to the Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
6.   On the  **IMPORTANT NOTICE** page, click **I Agree**.
7.   On the  **Destination Folder** page, click **Next**.
8.   On the  **Agent Setup Options** page, select the **Connect the agent to Azure Log Analytics (OMS)** checkbox, and then click **Next**.
9.   Switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the **Connected Sources** tab of the **Settings Dashboard** of the OMS portal, and then click the copy icon next to the **WORKSPACE ID** entry.
10.   If prompted whether to allow the webpage to access your Clipboard, click  **Allow access**.
11.   Switch back to the  **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, place the cursor in the **Workspace ID** textbox, and press Ctrl+V to paste the content of the clipboard.
12.   Switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the **Connected Sources** tab of the **Settings Dashboard** of the OMS portal, and then click the copy icon next to the **PRIMARY KEY** entry.
13.   Switch back to the  **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, place the cursor in the **Workspace Key** textbox, and press Ctrl+V to paste the content of the clipboard
14.   Click  **Next**.
15.   On the  **Ready to Install** page of the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, click **Install**.
16.   On the  **Microsoft Monitoring Agent configuration completed successfully** page, click **Finish**.


#### Task 2: Install the runbook environment and connect to Azure Automation
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window displaying the Azure portal and scroll back to the AdatumAutomation blade.
2.   Click  **All settings** and then click **Keys**.
3.   On the  **Manage Keys** blade, click the copy icon next to the **URL** entry.
4.   If prompted whether to allow the webpage to access your clipboard, click  **Allow access**.
5.   On  **MIA-CL1**, click  **Start**, click  **Windows Accessories**, and then click  **Notepad**. 
6.   In the  **Notepad** window, press Ctrl+V to paste the content of the clipboard.
7.   Switch back to the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the **Manage Keys** blade. On the **Manage Keys** blade, click the copy icon next to the **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entry.
8.   In the  **Notepad** window, press Enter, and then press Ctrl+V to paste the content of the clipboard.
9.   On  **MIA-CL1**, click  **Start**, click the  **Windows PowerShell** folder, and then right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**. On the shortcut menu, click  **More**, and then click  **Run as administrator**.
10.   If prompted by User Account Control, click  **Yes**
11.   In the console pane of the Windows  **PowerShell ISE** window, type in the following command (where the _&lt;version&gt;_ placeholder represents the version of the Azure Automation component provided by the instructor), and then press Enter.

  ```
  Set-Location 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\Agent\AzureAutomation\&lt;version&gt;\HybridRegistration'
  ```

12.   In the console pane of the  **Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type in the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Import-Module -FullyQualifiedName .\HybridRegistration.psd1
  ```

13.   In the console pane of  **the Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type in the following command (replacing the placeholders _&lt;url&gt;_ and _&lt;key&gt;_ with the values of the **URL** and **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entries that you copied to Notepad), and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-HybridRunbookWorker -GroupName AdatumLabWorkerGroup -Url &lt;url&gt; -Key &lt;key&gt;
  ```

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully installed the Microsoft Management Agent on your lab computer and installed the runbook environment and connected the Hybrid Runbook Worker component to the Azure Automation service.


## Exercise 3: Running a runbook on a Hybrid Runbook Worker and examining the outcome
  
#### Task 1: Start the runbook from the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the console pane of the  **Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type in the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  Add-AzureRmAccount
  ```

2.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the console pane of the  **Windows PowerShell ISE** window, type in the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Start-AzureRmAutomationRunbook -AutomationAccountName AdatumAutomation -Name Write-10992HelloWorld -RunOn AdatumLabWorkerGroup -ResourceGroupName OMSRG -Parameters @{Name='AdatumLabWorld (local)'}
  ```


#### Task 2: Start the runbook from the Azure portal
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the Azure portal, and then on the **AdatumAutomation** blade, click the **Runbooks** tile
2.   On the  **Runbooks** blade, click **Write-10992HelloWorld**.
3.   On the  **Write-10992HelloWorld** blade, click **Start**.
4.   On the  **Start Runbook** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**.
  -   Parameters NAME:  **AdatumLabWorld (from the Azure Portal)**

  -   Run on:  **Hybrid Worker**

  -   Choose Hybrid Worker group:  **AdatumLabWorkerGroup**.

5.   This will automatically open a new job blade with the label starting with the word  **Write-HelloWorld** followed by the date and time when the job was created. You can monitor the job status as it changes from Queued through Started and to Completed in the **Job Summary** tile. Verify that there were no errors or warnings.


#### Task 3: Examine the outcome of the runbook execution
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the Azure portal, scroll to the **AdatumAutomation** blade, and then click the **Jobs** tile.
2.   On the  **Jobs** blade, note the entries representing both the jobs, and then click the most recent one.
3.   Click the  **All Logs** tile.
4.   On the  **Streams** blade, note that there are two outputs representing results of the two actions performed by the workflow. Click each entry and examine each output.


#### Task 4: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, in the  **Hub** menu, click **Resource Groups**.
2.   On the  **Resource groups** blade, click **OMSRG**. 
3.   On the  **OMSRG** blade, click **Delete**. 
4.   On the  **Are you sure you want to delete "OMSRG"?** blade, type in the name of the resource group in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, and then click **Delete**.
5.   Close the  **Internet Explorer** window.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully started the Automation runbook from the lab virtual machine as well as from the Azure portal and verified that both of them completed successfully. 



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  