# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Integrating with Azure virtual networks
# Lab: Implementing a point-to-site VPN by using Azure Resource Manager
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing a Microsoft Azure subscription for implementing a point-to-site VPN
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual network and configure its VPN prerequisites
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, click  **Start**, scroll down in the list of apps to the  **Windows PowerShell** folder, click the **Windows PowerShell** folder, and then right-click **Windows PowerShell** On the shortcut menu, click **More**, and then click  **Run as administrator**.
2.   If you receive a prompt from User Account Control, click  **Yes**.
3.   At the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command and press Enter (replace **_&lt;subscription\_name&gt;_** with the name of your subscription):

  ```
  $subscriptionName = '<subscription_name>'
  ```

4.   At the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command and press Enter (replace **_&lt;Azure\_region&gt;_** with the name of the Azure region provided by the instructor):

  ```
  $location = '<Azure_region>'
  ```

5.   At the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command and press Enter:

  ```
  D:\Mod03\Labfiles\New-10992P2SVPN.ps1
  ```

  >  **Note:** If prompted whether to enable data collection, type N and press Enter.

6.   When you receive a prompt to sign in, then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
7.   Wait until the script completes. This should take about a minute. Leave the  **Windows PowerShell** window open.


#### Task 2: Examine the Azure virtual network configuration
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Microsoft Internet Explorer, browse to  **http://portal.azure.com**, and if you receive a prompt to sign in, then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **Resource groups**.
3.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **AdatumVNetRG**.
4.   In the  **AdatumVNetRG** blade, notice that the resource group contains a virtual network and a public IP address. The public IP address will be assigned to the VPN gateway after you provision it in the next exercise.
5.   Click  **AdatumVNet** in the **Essentials** section of the blade. This will automatically open the **AdatumVNet**.
6.   In the  **AdatumVNet** virtual network blade, click **Subnets**.
7.   In the  **Subnets** blade, notice that the virtual network contains two subnets provisioned by the Azure PowerShell script: **FrontEndSubnet** and **GatewaySubnet**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully created an Azure Resource Manager virtual network by using Azure PowerShell. 


## Exercise 2: Completing the point-to-site VPN setup
  
#### Task 1: Generate the root and client certificates
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Windows PowerShell** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-Location 'D:\Mod03\Labfiles'
  ```

2.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  .\Makecert.exe -sky exchange -r -n "CN=AdatumRootCertificate" -pe -a sha1 -len 2048 -ss My "AdatumRootCertificate.cer"
  ```

3.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  .\makecert.exe -n "CN=AdatumClient1Certificate" -pe -sky exchange -m 96 -ss My -in "AdatumRootCertificate" -is my -a sha1
  ```

4.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-ChildItem -Path '.\'
  ```

 >  **Note:** Notice that the local folder contains the root certificate **AdatumRootCertificate.cer**.


#### Task 2: Configure the Azure VPN gateway root certificate
  
1.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $rootCerText = Get-ChildItem -Path 'Cert:\CurrentUser\My' | Where-Object {$_.Subject -eq 'CN=AdatumRootCertificate'}
  ```

2.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $rootCertText = [System.Convert]::ToBase64String($rootCerText.RawData)
  ```

3.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** console prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $rootCert = New-AzureRmVpnClientRootCertificate -Name AdatumRootCert -PublicCertData $rootCertText
  ```


#### Task 3: Create a point-to-site VPN gateway
  
1.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  .\Set-10992P2SVPN.ps1
  ```

2.   Wait until the provisioning of the gateway completes. This might take about 40 minutes.


#### Task 4: Export a client certificate to a .pfx file
  
1.   At the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  certmgr.msc
  ```

2.   If you receive a prompt from User Account Control, click  **Yes**.
3.   In the Microsoft Management Console window, expand the  **Personal** node and click **Certificates**.
4.   Notice that the certificates with private keys for both  **AdatumRootCertificate** and **AdatumClient1Certificate** are located in the current user's **Personal** certificate store. Right-click **AdatumClient1Certificate**, and click  **All Tasks** in the right-click menu. Next, click **Export** in the **All Tasks** submenu. This will launch **Certificate Export Wizard.**
5.   On the  **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.
6.   On the  **Export Private Key** page, select the **Yes, export the private key** option, and then click **Next**.
7.   On the  **Export File Format** page, accept the default options, and then click **Next**.
8.   On the  **Security** page, select the **Password** check box, type **Pa55w.rd** in both the **Password** and the **Confirm password** boxes, and then click **Next**
9.   On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** box, type **D:\\Mod03\\Labfiles\\Client1Certificate.pfx**, and then click  **Next**.
10.   On the  **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
11.   In the  **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.
12.   Switch to the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-ChildItem -Path '.\'
  ```

  Notice that the local folder now also contains the client certificate  **Client1Certificate.pfx**.

  >  **Note:** In typical circumstances, you would now securely copy the client certificate to a client computer and import it into the **Personal** certificate store of the user of that computer. You can accomplish this task by using the Certificates snap-in of the Microsoft Management Console. This step is skipped here in the lab, because the lab computer already has this certificate installed.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully generated a test self-signed root and client certificate, configured an Azure VPN gateway root certificate, created a point-to-site VPN gateway, and tested the export of a client certificate.


## Exercise 3: Testing a point-to-site VPN from an on-premises virtual machine
  
#### Task 1: Download and install the VPN client configuration package
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Microsoft Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal, and if you receive a prompt, then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **All resources** blade, and then select **AdatumVGateway**.
3.   In the **Settings** section, click **Point-to-site configuration**.
4.   Uncheck the checkbox labeled **IKEv2 VPN** and click **Save**. 
5.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Windows PowerShell** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-AzureRmVpnClientPackage -ResourceGroupName 'AdatumVNetRG' -VirtualNetworkGatewayName AdatumVGateway -ProcessorArchitecture Amd64
  ```

6.   The cmdlet returns a URL link. Select the entire link, and then press Ctrl+C to copy it into the clipboard.
7.   Click  **Start**, click  **Windows Accessories**, and then click  **Notepad**.
8.   In the  **Notepad** window, press Ctrl+V to paste the contents of the clipboard.
9.   In the pasted text, remove the leading and trailing double quotation marks.
10.   Press Ctrl+A to select all text.
11.   Press Ctrl+C to copy the selected text.
12.   Start another instance of Internet Explorer. In the URL address bar, overwrite its current content by pasting the text that you copied from Notepad, and then press Enter.
13.   When you receive a prompt asking whether to run or save the file, click  **Run**.
14.   Click  **Actions**.
15.   In the  **SmartScreen Filter - Internet Explorer** dialog box, click **More Options**.
16.   Click  **Run anyway**.
17.   If prompted, in the  **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
18.   In the  **AdatumVNet** dialog box, click **Yes**.


#### Task 2: Establish a point-to-site VPN from the on-premises virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, click  **Start**, and then click  **Settings**.
2.   In the  **Settings** app, click **Network &amp; Internet**.
3.   Click  **VPN**.
4.   Click  **AdatumVNet**, and then click  **Connect**. This will display an  **AdatumVNet** window.
5.   In the  **AdatumVNet** window, click **Connect**.
6.   When you receive a prompt that states  **Connection Manager needs elevated privilege to run the following Custom Action(s) to proceed with the connection**, click  **Continue**.
7.   After you successfully connect, switch to the  **Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-NetIPConfiguration
  ```

8.   The cmdlet returns the IP configuration of your lab computer. Notice the IPv4 address entry for  **AdatumVNet** interface alias. It should contain the IP address from the VPN client IP address pool of **172.16.0.0./24**.
9.   Switch to the  **Settings** app. On the **VPN** tab, click **AdatumVNet**, and then click  **Disconnect**.
10.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources.
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **http://portal.azure.com**. if you receive a prompt to sign in, then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **Resource Groups**.
3.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **AdatumVNetRG**. 
4.   In the  **AdatumVNetRG** blade, click **Delete resource group**. 
5.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "AdatumVNetRG"?** blade, type the name of the resource group in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, and then click **Delete**.
6.   Close the Internet Explorer window.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully downloaded and installed the VPN client configuration package and established a point-to-site VPN from your lab virtual machine.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
