# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Designing and implementing cross-premises applications
# Lab: Implementing Traffic Manager
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying two instances of the test web app.
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual machine.
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side, click **+ New**. 
5.   On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.
6.   On the **Compute** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**.
7.   On the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Name: **10992B0601-vm1**
  -   VM disk type: **HDD**
  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab
  -   Resource group: click **Create new** and type **10992B0601-LabRG** as the name of the new resource group
  -   Location: the name of an Azure region where you have the ability to provision Azure VMs, closest to the lab location
  -   Already have a Windows Server license: **No**

8.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
9.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click any of available, low-priced VM sizes and then click **Select**.
10.   On the **Settings** blade, set **Availability set** to **None**.
11.   On the **Settings** blade, set **Use managed disks** to **Yes**.
12.   On the **Settings** blade, in the **Virtual network** section, click **Configure required settings**. 
13.   On the **Choose virtual network** blade, click **Create new**.
14.   On the **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

  -   Name: **10992B0601-vnet**
  -   Address space: **10.6.0.0/20**
  -   Subnet name: **subnet-0**
  -   Subnet address range: **10.6.0.0/24**

15.   On the **Settings** blade, accept the default value of the **Subnet** entry.
16.   On the **Settings** blade, click **Public IP address(new) 10992B0601-vm1-ip**.
17.   On the **Create public IP address** blade, ensure that **10992B0601-vm1-ip** appears in the **Name** text box, click **Static**, and then click **OK**.
18.   On the **Settings** blade, click **Network security group (new) 10992B0601-vm1-nsg**.
19.   On the **Choose network security group** blade, click **Create new**.
20.   On the **Create network security group** blade, ensure that the **Name** text box, contains the **10992B0601-vm1-nsg** entry and click **Add an inbound rule**.
21.   On the **Add inbound security rule** blade specify the following setings and click **OK**:

  -   Service: **HTTP**
  -   Port ranges: **80**
  -   Priority: **100**
  -   Name: **allow-HTTP**

22.   Back on the **Create network security group** blade, click **Add an inbound rule**.
21.   On the **Add inbound security rule** blade specify the following setings and click **OK**:

  -   Service: **Custom**
  -   Port ranges: **8172**
  -   Priority: **200**
  -   Name: **allow-web-management-service**

23.   Back on the **Create network security group** blade, click **OK**.
24.   On the **Settings** blade, click **No extensions**.
25.   On the **Extensions** blade, click **Add extension**.
26.   On the **New resource** blade, click **PowerShell Desired State Configuration**.
27.   On the **PowerShell Desired State Configuration** blade, click **Create**.
28.   On the **Install extension** blade, click the folder icon next to the **Configuration Modules or Script** box.
29.   In the **Choose File to Upload** window, browse to the **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod06\\Labfiles** folder, click the **LabWebSite.ps1.zip** file, and then click **Open**.
30.   In the **Module-qualified Name of Configuration** box, type **LabWebSite.ps1\\LabWebSite**.
31.   On the **Install extension** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Configuration Arguments: Leave blank
  -   Configuration Data PSD1 File: Leave blank
  -   WMF Version: **5.1**
  -   Data Collection: **Disable**
  -   Version: **2.72**
  -   Auto Upgrade Minor Version: **No**

32.   Back on the **Extensions** blade, click **OK**.
33.   On the **Settings** blade, specify the following remaining settings and click **OK**:

  -   Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**
  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**
  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

34.   On the **Summary** blade, click **Create**.
35.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.


#### Task 2: Create an Azure web app
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, in the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, click **+ New**.
2.   On the **New** blade, click **Web + Mobile**.
3.   On the **Web + Mobile** blade, click **Web App**.
4.   On the **Web App** blade, in the **App name** text box, type any unique name. Verify that a green check mark appears on the right side of the text box.
5.   On the **Web App** blade, in the **Resource Group** section, click **Use existing**. Then, in the drop-down list, select **10992B0601-LabRG**. 
6.   On the **Web App** blade, click **App Service plan/Location**.
7.   On the **App Service plan** blade, click **Create New**.
8.   In the **App Service plan** text box, type **10992B0601-AppServicePlan**.
9.   On the **Location** blade, click an Azure region on a different continent from the one where you deployed the Azure VM in the previous exercise of this lab.
10.   Click **Pricing tier**.
11.   On the **Choose your pricing tier** blade, click **S1 Standard**, and then click **Select**.
12.   On the **New App Service plan** blade, click **OK**.
13.   Ensure that the **Application Insights** setting is set to **Off**.
14.   On the **Web App** blade, click **Create**.

#### Task 3: Deploy the test web app to the Azure Web app.
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, click **Start**, in the Start menu, click **Visual Studio 2017**. 
  > **Note:** If, after starting Visual Studio you receive the message "Your evaluation period has ended", then sign in to the Visual Studio by following the procedure described in https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio  

2.   In Microsoft Visual Studio, click the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
3.   In the **Open Project** window, browse to the **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\AdatumWebsite** folder, click the file **AdatumWebsite.sln**, and then click **Open**.
4.   In the **Solution Explorer** window, right-click the **AdatumWebsite** project, and then in the menu, click **Publish**. This opens the **Publish** wizard.
5.   On the **Profile** page, ensure that **Microsoft Azure App Service** is selected, click the **Select Existing** option, and click **Publish**.
6.   In the **App Service** dialog box, ensure that your Microsoft account is listed in the upper right corner. If this is not the case, click **Add an account,** and then, in the drop-down list, click **Add an account**. In the **Sign in to your account** window, type the name of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click **Continue**. In the **Sign in to your account** window, type in the password of the user account that you specified in the previous step, and then click **Sign in**.
7.   In the **App Service** window, ensure that the name of your subscription appears in the **Subscription** list and that the **Resource Group** entry appears in the **View** list. Expand the **10992B0601-LabRG** folder, click the entry representing the Azure web app that you created in the previous task of this exercise, and then click **OK**.
8.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the **Output** window within the Visual Studio interface, and verify that the web app published successfully. The Adatum web app automatically opens in the new tab within Visual Studio.
9.   In the Visual Studio window, close the **Browse - Home Page** tab.


#### Task 4: Prepare an Azure virtual machine for web app deployment
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, switch to Internet Explorer that displays the Azure portal.
2.   In the hub menu, click **Virtual machines**.
3.   On the **Virtual machines** blade, verify that **10992B0601-vm1** is listed with the **Running** status. If not, wait until the status changes to **Running**. You might need to click **Refresh** to update the view.
4.   Click **10992B0601-vm1**. This opens the **10992B0601-vm1** blade.
5.   On the **10992B0601-vm1** blade, click the IP address link below **Public IP address/DNS name label**. 
6.   Ensure that you are redirected to the **10992B0601-vm1-ip - Configuration** blade.
7.   On the **10992B0601-vm1-ip - Configuration** blade, in the **DNS name label (optional)** box, type a name that will be resolvable to the corresponding public IP address and press Enter. The name must be unique in the Domain Name System (DNS) namespace that is specific to the Azure region that you chose. The green check mark on the right side indicates whether the name that you typed is valid and unique.
  > **Note:** In general, assigning a DNS name is optional when deploying Azure virtual machines. It is mandatory when publishing web apps from Visual Studio and when using Azure virtual machines as Traffic Manager profile endpoints.

8.   Click **Save**.
9.   Navigate back to the **10992B0601-vm1** blade, click **Connect**.
10.   When you receive a prompt to open or save the .rdp file, click **Open**.
11.   If a **Remote Desktop Connection** warning message displays, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** check box.
12.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, click **Connect**.
13.   In the **Windows Security** dialog box, enter the user name **Student** and the password **Pa55w.rd1234** and click **OK**.
14.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Yes**.
15.   Within the Remote Desktop session, if you see the prompt asking you whether to allow your PC to be discoverable by other PCs and devices, aclick **No**.
16.   Within the Remote Desktop session to **10992B0601-vm1**, in the **Server Manager** window, click **Local Server**.
17.   In the **Details** pane of Server Manager, next to the **IE Enhanced Security Configuration** entry, click **On**.
18.   In the **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration** dialog box, in the **Administrators** section, click the **Off** option, and then click **OK**.
19.   Within the Remote Desktop session to **10992B0601-vm1**, start Internet Explorer.
20.   When you receive the prompt to **Use recommended security, privacy, and compatibility settings**, click **OK.**
21.   If you see a message at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window regarding protected mode, click **Don't show this message again**.
22.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Web Deploy v3.6 download page at http://aka.ms/v9ha4p. 
23.   On the **Web Deploy 3.6** download page, click **Download**.
24.   On the **Choose the download you want** page, select the **WebDeploy_amd64_en-US.msi** check box, and then click **Next**.
25.   If you see a notification that **Internet Explorer blocked a pop-up from www.microsoft.com**, click **Options for this site** and in the drop-down list, click **Always allow**.
26.   When you receive the prompt to run or save **WebDeploy_amd64_en-US.msi**, click **Run**. This launches the **Microsoft Web Deploy 3.6 Setup** wizard.
27.   On the **Welcome to the Microsoft Web Deploy 3.6 Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
28.   On the **End-User License Agreement** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then click **Next**.
29.   On the **Choose Setup Type** page, click **Complete**.
30.   On the **Ready to install Microsoft Web Deploy 3.6** page, click **Install**.
31.   On the **Completed the Microsoft Web Deploy 3.6 Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
32.   Close the Remote Desktop session window.


#### Task 5: Deploy the test web app to the Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, switch to the Visual Studio interface. 
2.   In the **Solution Explorer** window of Visual Studio, right-click the **AdatumWebsite** project, and then click **Publish**.
3.   On the **Publish** page, click **Create new profile**.
4.   In the **Pick a publish profile** window, click the **>** symbol to scroll through the list of **Targets**, click **Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines**, and then, next to the **Select an Azure Virtual Machine** text box, click **Browse**.
5.   In the **Select Existing Virtual Machine** dialog box, ensure that the same Microsoft account that you used to deploy the web app to the Azure web app appears in the upper drop-down list. Next, in the **Existing Virtual Machines** drop-down list, select **10992B0601-vm1**, and then click **OK**.
6.   Back in the **Pick a publish target** window, click **Publish**.
7.   When prompted, in the **Web Deploy Client** dialog box, specify the following credentials and click **OK**:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

8.   If you are presented with the **Certificate Error** dialog box, select the **Save this certificate for future sessions of Visual Studio** check box, and then click **Accept**.
9.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the **Output** window within the Visual Studio interface, and verify that the web app was successfully published. The Adatum web app will automatically open in the new tab within Visual Studio.
10.   Close the **Browse - Home Page** tab in Visual Studio.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure virtual machine and an Azure web app and deployed an existing web app to both of them by using Visual Studio.


## Exercise 2: Creating and configuring an Azure Traffic Manager profile
  
#### Task 1: Create a Traffic Manager profile
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, switch to the Azure portal and click **+ New**.
2.   On the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Traffic Manager profile** and then press Enter.
3.   On the **Everything** blade, click **Traffic Manager profile**. 
4.   On the **Traffic Manager profile** blade, click **Create**.
5.   On the **Create Traffic Manager profile** blade, specify the following settings:

  -   Name: Unique string of alphanumeric characters. 
  -   Routing method: **Performance**
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource group: click **Use existing**, and in the drop down list, click **10992B0601-LabRG**. 
  -   Resource group location: specify the same Azure region to which you deployed the Azure VM in the first exercise of this lab

6.   Click **Create** and wait until the Traffic Manager profile is provisioned. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 2: Configure Traffic Manager
  
1.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **More services**.
2.   In the **Filter** text box, type **Traffic Manager profiles** and then, in the list of results, click **Traffic Manager profiles**.
3.   On the **Traffic Manager profiles** blade, click the entry representing the newly created Traffic Manager profile. 
4.   On the traffic manager profile blade, click **Configuration**.
5.   In the traffic manager profile configuration blade, set the entry in the **DNS time to live (TTL)** box to **30** and press Enter.
6.   Click **Save**.
7.   On the traffic manager profile blade, click **Endpoints**.
8.   On the traffic manager endpoints blade, click **+ Add**.
9.   On the **Add endpoint** blade, ensure that the **Azure endpoint** appears in the **Type** list.
10.   In the **Name** text box, type the name of the web app that you created in the previous exercise.
11.   In the **Target resource type** drop-down list of websites, click **App Service**.
12.   Click **Choose an app service**.
13.   On the **Resource** blade, click the web app that you created in the previous exercise.
14.   On the **Add endpoint** blade, click **OK**. 
15.   On the **Endpoints** blade, click **Add**.
16.   On the **Add endpoint** blade, ensure that **Azure endpoint** appears in the **Type** list.
  > **Note:** If you were adding an on-premises web app with a public IP address, then you would select **External endpoint** instead. You would also need to provide the corresponding fully qualified domain name (FQDN) and location by specifying the closest Azure region.

17.   In the **Name** box, type **10992B0601-vm1**.
18.   In the **Target resource type** drop-down list, click **Public IP address**.
19.   Click **Target resource Choose a public IP address**.
20.   On the **Resource** blade, click the public IP address named **10992B0601-vm1-ip**, which is assigned to the network interface of the virtual machine that you created in the previous exercise.
21.   On the **Add endpoint** blade, click **OK**. 
22.   Monitor the Traffic Manager profile endpoints blade and wait until the monitoring status of both endpoints is **Online**.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created a Traffic Manager profile with two endpoints representing the Azure web app instance and the public IP address of the network interface attached to the Azure virtual machine.


## Exercise 3: Testing Traffic Manager failover functionality
  
#### Task 1: Test Traffic Manager routing to the web app
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, click the **Command Prompt** taskbar icon.
2.   In the **Command Prompt** window, type the following command (replace `<traffic_manager_profile>` with the unique name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile), and then press Enter:

```
nslookup <traffic_manager_profile>.trafficmanager.net
```

3.   Notice the output of the command. The **Name** entry in the output should contain the name assigned to the public IP of the network interface attached to the virtual machine.
  > **Note:** This is the expected outcome, because you selected the **Performance** routing method of the Traffic Manager profile. According to the lab setup, the Azure virtual machine resides in the Azure region closer to you. This would also be the case if this virtual machine was representing your on-premises web server.

4.   Switch to the Azure portal that displays the Traffic Manager profile blade.
5.   On the blade, click **Overview**. 
6.   Click the link listed below the **DNS name** entry that contains the name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile. This should automatically open another page in the Internet Explorer window, displaying the Adatum web app home page of the Adatum Web site running in the virtual machine. 
7.   Leave the new Internet Explorer page open.


#### Task 2: Shut down the virtual machine and test Traffic Manager routing
  
1.   Switch to the Internet Explorer page displaying the Azure portal and, in the hub menu, click **Virtual machines**.
2.   On the **Virtual machines** blade, click the ellipsis to the right of the **10992B0601-vm1** entry, and, in the drop-down menu, click **Stop**.
3.   When prompted whether to stop **'10992B0601-vm1'**, click **Yes.** Wait until the virtual machine is in the **Stopped (deallocated)** state.
4.   Switch back to the browser window that shows the Adatum web app home page, and then click **Contact**. The connection should time out, because, with the current settings, it takes more than a minute for the failover to take effect. 
5.   Switch to the Internet Explorer page displaying the Azure portal and navigate to the Traffic Manager profile blade. 
6.   On the Traffic Manager profile blade review the **MONITOR STATUS** column of the Traffic Manager endpoints. Ensure that the endpoint representing the Azure VM is listed with the **Degraded** status. If that is not the case, wait for about one minute and click **Refresh**. 
7.   Switch to the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, re-type the following command (replace `<traffic_manager_profile>` with the unique name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile), and then press Enter:

```
nslookup <traffic_manager_profile>.trafficmanager.net
```

8.   Take a note of the output of the command. At this point, the **Name** entry should represent the name assigned to the Azure web app.
9.   Switch to the Internet Explorer window. Click the cogwheel icon in its upper right corner. In the drop down menu, click **Safety**, and then in the cascading menu, click **InPrivate Browsing**.
10.   In the URL box, type **http://`<traffic_manager_profile>`.trafficmanager.net** where `<traffic_manager_profile>` represents the unique name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile. Press Enter.
11.   Notice that you can successfully access the Adatum web app home page again. Traffic Manager automatically redirected you to the Azure web app instance.
  > **Note:** The Traffic Manager profile facilitates automatic failover regardless of the routing method.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources.
  
1.   On  MIA-CL1, switch to the Azure portal. 
2.   In the hub vertical menu on the left, click **Resource Groups**.
3.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click **10992B0601-LabRG**. 
4.   On the **10992B0601-LabRG** blade, click **Delete**. 
5.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10992B0601-LabRG"?** blade, type the name of the resource group in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, and then click **Delete**.
6.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.
3.   In the **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully tested the normal operations of Traffic Manager configured with the performance routing method. You should also have successfully verified that Traffic Manager can detect the failure of one of its endpoints and automatically redirect traffic to the remaining one by altering the outcome of the DNS name resolution.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
