# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Designing and implementing Azure Site Recovery solutions
# Lab: Implementing protection of on-premises Hyper-V virtual machines in Azure by using Site Recovery
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing your Microsoft Azure subscription for implementing Site Recovery
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual network
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start  **Internet Explorer**, browse to  **http://portal.azure.com**, and then, when you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **More services**.
3.   In the list of services, click  **Virtual networks**.
4.   In the  **Virtual networks** blade, click **Add**.
5.   In the  **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:
  -   Name:  **AdatumASRVNet**

  -   Address space:  **192.168.0.0/16**

  -   Subnet name:  **Subnet1**

  -   Subnet address range:  **192.168.0.0/24**

  -   Subscription: The name of your Azure subscription 

  -   Resource group: Ensure that the  **Create new** option is selected, and then type **AdatumASRRG** in the text box below.

  -   Location: &lt;Azure region closest to the location of the lab&gt;
  
  -   Service endpoints (Preview): **Disabled**

  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the check box clear.


#### Task 2: Create an Azure storage account
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **More services**.
2.   In the list of services, click  **Storage accounts**.
3.   In the  **Storage accounts** blade, click **Add**.
4.   In the  **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:
  -   Name: a unique name between 3 and 24 characters consisting of lower case letters and digits. Verify that the green checkmark appears on the right hand side of the text box. 

  -   Deployment model:  **Resource manager**

  -   Account kind:  **General purpose**.

  -   Performance:  **Standard**

  -   Replication:  **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

  -   Storage service encryption:  **Disabled**.

  -   Subscription: The name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group: ensure that the  **Use existing** option is selected, and then select **AdatumASRRG** in the drop-down list.

  -   Location: The same Azure region you chose in the previous task of this exercise

  -   Configure virtual networks: **Disabled**
  
  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the check box clear.

5.   Wait until the storage account is provisioned before proceeding to the next step. Click the bell icon in the upper-right corner of the portal to view the progress of storage account provisioning. The notification stating  **Deployment succeeded** will indicate successful completion.


#### Task 3: Create a Recovery Services vault
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Hub** vertical menu on the left, click **New**.
2.   In the  **New** blade, in the search text box, type **Backup and Site Recovery (OMS),** and then press Enter.
3.   In the  **Everything** blade, click **Backup and Site Recovery (OMS)**.
4.   In the  **Backup and Site Recovery (OMS)** blade, click **Create**.
5.   In the  **Recovery Services vault** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:
  -   Name:  **AdatumASRVault**

  -   Subscription: The name of your Azure subscription 

  -   Resource group: ensure that the  **Use existing** option is selected and select **AdatumASRRG** in the drop-down list.

  -   Location: The same Azure region you chose in the previous task of this exercise

  -   Pin to dashboard: Select the check box.

6.   Wait until the Azure Recovery vault is provisioned before proceeding to the next step. This should take less than a minute. The portal will automatically display the vault's blade at that point.


#### Task 4: Configure the Recovery Services vault protection goals
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Settings** blade of the newly created Recovery Services vault, click **Site Recovery**.
2.   In the  **Site Recovery** blade, click **Prepare Infrastructure**.
3.   In the  **Protection goal** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  -   Where are your virtual machines located?: **On-premises**

  -   Where do you want to replicate your machines to?: **To Azure**

  -   Are your machines virtualized?: **Yes, with Hyper-V**

  -   Are you using System Center VMM to manage your Hyper-V hosts?: **No**

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully:Created an Azure virtual network.Created an Azure storage account.Created a Recovery Services vault.Configured the Recovery Services vault protection goals.


## Exercise 2: Preparing a Hyper-V host for the implementation
  
#### Task 1: Enable the Windows Update service
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, right-click  **Start**, and then click  **Computer Management**.
2.   In the  **Computer Management** console, expand the **Services and Applications** node, and then click **Services**.
3.   In the list of services, right-click  **Windows Update**, and then click  **Properties**.
4.   In the  **Windows Update Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, select **Manual** in the **Startup type** drop-down list, and then click **OK**.
5.   Close the  **Computer Management** console.


#### Task 2: Install the Azure Site Recovery Provider and the Azure Site Recovery Services agent
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Prepare source** blade, click **+Hyper-V Site**.
2.   In the  **Create Hyper-V site** blade, type **AdatumLabSite**, and then click  **OK**.
3.   In the  **Prepare source** blade, click **+Hyper-V Server**.
4.   In the  **Add Server** blade, review the list of steps to add Hyper-V server. Click the **Download** link in step **3. Download the installer for the Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Provider**.
5.   When you receive a prompt asking whether to run or save  **AzureSiteRecoveryProvider.exe**, click  **Run**.
6.   In the  **Azure Site Recovery Provider Setup (Hyper-V server)** window, on the **Microsoft Update** page, click **Off**, and then click  **Next**.
7.   On the  **Installation** page, accept the default installation location, and then click **Install**.
8.   Wait for the installation to complete, and then click  **Register**. This will launch the  **Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Registration Wizard**.


#### Task 3: Register the Hyper-V host with the Recovery Services vault.
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window that is showing the **Add Server** blade in the Azure portal.
2.   In the  **Add Server** blade, click the **Download** command button in step **4. Download the vault registration key to register the host in a Hyper-V site**. Ensure that  **AdatumLabSite** appears in the drop-down list.
3.   When you receive a prompt asking whether to open or save the vault credentials file, click  **Save**.
4.   Switch to the  **Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Registration Wizard** window.
5.   On the  **Vault Settings** page, click **Browse** next to the **Key file** entry.
6.   In the  **Open** dialog box, browse to the **Downloads** folder, click the vault credentials file you just downloaded, and then click **Open**.
7.   Click  **Next**.
8.   On the  **Proxy Settings** page, click **Next**.
9.   Wait until the registration completes successfully, and then click  **Finish**.
    >  **Note:** It might take between 15 and 30 minutes before the Hyper-V server appears in the Azure portal.

10.   Switch to the Internet Explorer window, showing the  **Add Server** blade in the Azure portal.
11.   Close the **Add Server** blade and then close the **Prepare source** blade.
12.   In the dialog box displaying the message **Your unsaved edits will be discarded**, click **OK**.
13.   Back in the **Prepare infrastructure** blade, click **3 Source Prepare**.
14.   On the **Prepare source** blade, verify that **MIA-CL1** is listed under **Step 2: Ensure Hyper-V servers are added**, and then click  **OK**. This will automatically display the **Target** blade. If you do not see **MIA-CL1** appearing on the **Prepare source** blade under **Step 2: Ensure Hyper-V servers are added**, wait for five minutes, and then repeat steps 11 to 14.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully:Installed the Azure Site Recovery Provider and the Azure Site Recovery Services agent.Registered the Hyper-V host with the Recovery Services vault.


## Exercise 3: Configuring Site Recovery protection of a Hyper-V virtual machine
  
#### Task 1: Verify the existence of a Site Recovery target storage account and virtual network
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the **Target** blade, verify that your Azure subscription is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down list and that the **Resource Manager** appears in the **Select the deployment model used after failover** drop-down list.
2.   Verify that there is a green checkbox next to  **Step 2: Ensure that at least one compatible Azure storage account exist**.
3.   Verify that there is a green checkbox next to  **Step 3: Ensure that at least one compatible Azure virtual network exist**.
4.   Click  **OK**. This will automatically open the  **Replication policy** blade.


#### Task 2: Create and associate a Site Recovery replication policy with the Hyper-V host
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, in the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Replication policy** blade, click **Create and Associate Policy**.
2.   In the  **Create and associate policy** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  -   Name:  **AdatumASRPolicy**

  -   Source type:  **Hyper-V**

  -   Target type:  **Azure**

  -   Copy frequency:  **15 minutes**

  -   Recovery point retention in hours:  **2**

  -   App-consistent snapshot frequency in hours:  **1**

  -   Initial replication start time: choose the time 12 hours ahead of the current time.

  -   Associated Hyper-V site:  **AdatumLabSite**.

3.   Wait for the replication policy to be created and associated with the  **AdatumLabSite**. After both steps complete successfully, as indicated by two checkmarks in green circles in the  **Replication policy** blade, click **OK**.
4.   In the  **Capacity planning** blade, select **Yes, I have done it** in the **Have you completed capacity planning?** drop-down list, and then click **OK**.
5.   Back in the  **Prepare infrastructure** blade, click **OK**. This will take you back to the  **Site Recovery** blade.


#### Task 3: Configure and enable virtual machine replication
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, in the  **Internet Explorer** window that is showing the **Site Recovery** blade, click **Step 1: Replicate Application**. This will automatically open the  **Enable replication** blade and the **Source** blade.
2.   In the  **Source** blade, ensure that **AdatumLabSite** appears in the **Source** drop-down list, and then click **OK**.
3.   In the  **Target** blade, specify the following settings:
  -   Target:  **Azure**

  -   Subscription: select the name of your Azure subscription in the drop-down list
  
  -   Post-failover resource group:  **AdatumASRRG**

  -   Post-failover deployment model:  **Resource Manager**

4.   Click  **Storage account**.
5.   In the  **Choose storage account** blade, click the storage account you created in the first exercise.
6.   Ensure that  **Configure now for selected machines** appears in the **Azure network** drop-down list.
7.   Click  **Post-failover Azure network**.
8.   In the  **Choose virtual network** blade, click **AdatumASRVNet**.
9.   In the  **Subnet** drop-down list, click **Subnet1 (192.168.0.0/24)**.
10.   Click  **OK**.
11.   In the  **Select virtual machines** blade, click the entry representing the virtual machine guest on the lab virtual machine, and then click **OK**.
12.   In the  **Configure properties** blade, in the **Defaults** row, select **Windows** in the **OS TYPE** drop-down list, and then click **OK**.
13.   In the  **Configure replication settings** blade, verify that the **AdatumASRPolicy** appears in the **Replication policy** drop-down list, and then click **OK**.
14.   Back in the  **Enable replication** blade, click **Enable replication**.
  >  **Note:** Disregard any error messages indicating that **Enabling protection** operation failed.


#### Task 4: Create a recovery plan.
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, in the  **Internet Explorer** window that is showing the **Site Recovery** blade, click **Step 2: Manage Recovery Plans**. This will automatically open the  **Recovery plans** blade.
2.   In the  **Recovery plans** blade, click **+ Recovery plan**.
3.   In the  **Create recovery plan** blade, specify the following settings:
  -   Name:  **AdatumLabRecoveryPlan**

  -   Source:  **AdatumLabSite**

  -   Target:  **Microsoft Azure**

  -   Allow items with deployment model:  **Resource Manager**

4.   Click  **Select items**.
5.   In the  **Select items** blade, click the protected item representing the virtual machine guest on the lab virtual machine, and then click **OK**.
6.   Back in the  **Create recovery plan** blade, click **OK**.
7.   Wait for the recovery plan to be created. This should take less than a minute. The new recovery plan should appear in the  **Recovery plans** blade.


#### Task 5: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   In the Azure portal, scroll to the  **Settings** blade of the **AdatumASRVault** Recovery Services vault.
2.   In the  **PROTECTED ITEMS** section of the **Settings** blade, click **Replicated items**.
3.   In the  **Replicated items** blade, click the ellipsis to the right of the entry representing the guest virtual machine on your lab virtual machine, and then click **Delete** in the drop-down menu.
4.   In the  **Delete** blade, select **Disable protection for the machine (Recommended)** in the **Remove machine** drop-down list, and then click **OK**. Wait for the operation to complete. This should take less than a minute.
5.   Scroll back to the  **Settings** blade.
6.   In the  **MANAGE** section of the **Settings** blade, click **Site Recovery** **Infrastructure**. 
7.   In the  **Site Recovery** **Infrastructure** blade, click **Hyper-V Hosts**. 
8.   In the  **Servers** blade, click the entry that represents your lab virtual machine.
9.   In the blade that represents your lab virtual machine, click  **Delete**.
10.   When you receive a prompt, click  **OK**. 
    >  **Note:** Disregard any error messages indicating that **Deleting Hyper-V server** operation failed.

11.   Scroll back to the blade of the  **AdatumASRVault** Recovery Services vault.
12.   Click  **Delete**.
13.   When you receive a prompt, click  **Yes**.
14.   In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click  **Resource groups**.
15.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **AdatumASRRG**.
16.   In the  **AdatumASRRG** blade, click **Delete**.
17.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "AdatumASRRG"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
18.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start  **Microsoft Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully:Verified the existence of a Site Recovery target storage account and virtual network.Created and associated a Site Recovery replication policy with the Hyper-V host.Configured and enabled virtual machine replication.Created a recovery plan.Identified and deleted all lab Azure resources.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
