# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Integrating with Azure Compute Services
# Lab A: Uploading an on-premises virtual disk file to Azure
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing for an upload of a virtual disk file to Azure
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure storage account
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at  **http://portal.azure.com**, and when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Microsoft Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure portal, click  **+New**. 
3.   In the  **New** blade, click **Storage**. 
4.   In the  **Storage** blade, click **Storage account**.
5.   In the  **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:
  -   Name: a unique name from 3 through 24 characters that includes lowercase letters and digits
  -   Deployment model:  **Resource Manager**
  -   Account kind:  **General purpose**
  -   Performance:  **Standard**
  -   Replication:  **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**
  -   Storage service encryption:  **Disabled**
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource group: ensure that the  **Create new** option is selected, and then type **UploadedVHDRG**
  -   Location: An Azure region close to the location of your lab VM
  -   Pin to dashboard: leave unchecked
6.   Do not wait until the storage account is created, but proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Create a .vhdx virtual disk
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in Server Manager, click  **Tools**.
2.   On the menu, click  **Computer Management**.
3.   In the  **Computer Management** console, click **Disk Management**.
4.   Click the  **Action** menu, and then on the menu, click **Create VHD**.
5.   In the  **Create and Attach Virtual Hard Disk** dialog box, specify the following settings and then click **OK**:
  -   Location:  **D:\Mod02\Labfiles\LabDisk.vhdx**
  -   Virtual hard disk size: **  1** **GB**
  -   Virtual hard disk format:  **VHDX**
  -   Virtual hard disk type:  **Fixed size**
6.   Right-click the newly created disk and, in the menu, click  **Detach VHD**.
7.   In the  **Detach Virtual Hard Disk** dialog box, click **OK**.
8.   Close  **Computer Management**.


#### Task 3: Convert the .vhdx virtual disk to the .vhd format
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, click  **Start**, in the list of apps, click the  **Windows PowerShell** folder, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, in the menu, click  **More**, and then click  **Run as** **administrator**.
2.   At the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Convert-VHD -Path D:\Mod02\Labfiles\LabDisk.vhdx -DestinationPath D:\Mod02\Labfiles\LabDisk.vhd
  ```

3.   Wait until the conversion completes. This should take a few seconds

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure storage account, created a fixed .vhdx virtual disk file, and converted it to the .vhd format.


## Exercise 2: Uploading a virtual disk file to Azure
  
#### Task 1: Upload the .vhd file to the Azure storage account
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal. In the Azure portal, in the  **hub** menu, click **More services**.
2.   In the list of services, click  **Storage accounts**.
3.   In the  **Storage accounts** blade, click the name of the storage account you created in the first exercise of this lab.
4.   In the storage account blade, click  **Access keys**. 
5.   In the access keys blade, click the copy icon next to the key1 entry. If prompted whether to allow access of this webpage to Clipboard, click  **Allow access**.
6.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following, and then press Enter.

  ```
  Add-AzureRmAccount
  ```

  >  **Note:** If prompted whether to enable data collection, type N and press Enter

7.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
8.   If you have multiple subscriptions, then at the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, (where _Your_Azure_subscription_name_ designates the name of your Azure subscription), and then press Enter.

  ```
  Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionName 'Your_Azure_subscription_name'
  ```

9.   At the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter.

  ```
  $storageAccount = Get-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName 'UploadedVHDRG'
  ```

10.   At the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter.

  ```
  Set-Location -Path "C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Azure\AzCopy"
  ```

11.   At the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter. Replace _storage_account_key_ with the value of key1 you copied from the Azure portal.

  ```
  .\AzCopy.exe /Source:"D:\Mod02\Labfiles" /Dest:"https://$($storageAccount.StorageAccountName).blob.core.windows.net/vhds" /DestKey:storage_account_key /BlobType:page /Pattern:"LabDisk.vhd" /Y
  ```
>  **Note:** Because AzCopy copies only the content of the VHD file that is in use, the upload should take a few seconds.


#### Task 2: Identify and delete all the Azure resources used in the lab
  
1.   In the Azure portal, on the hub menu, click  **Resource Groups**.
2.   In the  **Resource Groups** blade, click **UploadedVHDRG**.
3.   In the  **UploadedVHDRG** blade, click **Delete**.
4.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "UploadedVHDRG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type **UploadedVHDRG** and then click **Delete**.
5.   Close all open windows.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully uploaded the .vhd file to an Azure storage account. After the upload completes, you should have identified and removed all of the Azure resources that you created for this lab by using the Azure portal.



# Lab B: Moving containers between on-premises Hyper-V virtual machines and Azure virtual machines
  
## Exercise 1: Creating a Docker host by using Docker Machine
  
#### Task 1: Install Docker Toolbox for Windows
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://www.docker.com/products/docker-toolbox**. 
2.   On the  **DOCKER TOOLBOX** page, next to the Windows logo, click **Download**.
3.   On the  **Downloads** page, click the link to the **Docker Toolbox** executable.
4.   When asked whether to save or run the Docker Toolbox executable file, click  **Run**. This downloads the Docker Toolbox executable file and starts the Docker Toolbox Setup Wizard.
5.   If prompted by User Account Control, click  **Yes**. 
6.   On the  **Welcome to the Docker Toolbox Setup Wizard** page, clear the **Help Docker improve Toolbox** checkbox and click **Next**.
7.   On the  **Select** **Destination** **Location** page, click **Next**.
8.   On the  **Select Components** page, clear the **Kinematic for Windows (Alpha)** check box, and then click **Next**.
9.   On the  **Select** **Additional** **Tasks** page, accept the default selection, and then click **Next**.
10.   On the  **Ready to** **Install** page, click **Install**.
11.   When asked by the  **Windows Security** dialog box whether to install a software device, click **Don't Install**.
12.   On the  **Completing the Docker Toolbox Setup Wizard** page, clear the **View Shortcuts in File Explorer** check box and click **Finish**. 


#### Task 2: Create a Docker host in a Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, click the Start button, type "cmd", right-click Command Prompt in the results returned, and then click Run as Administrator.
2.   In the  **Administrator: Command** **Prompt** window **,** type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker-machine create --driver hyperv --hyperv-virtual-switch "Microsoft Hyper-V Network Adapter - Virtual Switch" localdockervm
  ```

  Wait for the new Microsoft Hyper-V virtual machine to be provisioned. This takes a few minutes. If the Boot2Docker ISO image is out-of-date, Docker Machine initiates the download of the latest release.


  >  **Note:** Disregard the message **Error creating machine: Error detecting OS: OS type not recognized** at the end of the provisioning process.


#### Task 3: Create a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine by using Docker Machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1** at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter.

  ```
  Add-AzureRmAccount
  ```

2.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the output of the cmdlet, note the value of the  **SubscriptionId** property.
4.   On MIA-CL1, in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker-machine create --driver azure --azure-size "Standard_D1_v2" --azure-ssh-user ops --azure-subscription-id your_Azure_subscrption_id --azure-open-port 80 --azure-image canonical:UbuntuServer:16.04-LTS:latest --azure-location centralus azuredockervm
  ```

  In the preceding command, _your_Azure_subscription_id_ is the value of your Azure subscription ID, which you identified in the previous step, and _16.04.0-DAILY-LTS_ represents the Ubuntu Server image version provided by the instructor.

5.   Follow the instructions displayed at the command prompt that state that you should use a web browser to open the page at 
        [https://aka.ms/devicelogin](https://aka.ms/devicelogin)
      , and then enter the code provided at the end of the message. On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to 
        [https://aka.ms/devicelogin](https://aka.ms/devicelogin)
      . On the  **Device Login** page, type the code displayed at the command prompt, and then click **Continue**.
6.   On the  **Docker Machine for Azure** page, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
7.   On the  **Docker Machine for Azure** page, click **Accept**.
8.   Switch back to the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, and then monitor the progress of provisioning the Azure virtual machine.
9.   Wait for the new Docker Azure VM to be provisioned. 
10.   In the  **Administrator: Command** **Prompt window,** type the following command, and press then Enter.

  ```
  docker-machine ls
  ```

11.   Verify that the output includes both the Hyper-V virtual machine and the Azure VM. 
12.   In the  **Administrator: Command** **Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker-machine env azuredockervm
  ```

  If you receive an error checking the TLS connection, in the  **Administrator: Command** **Prompt window,** type the following command, press Enter, and, when prompted, type **y** to regenerate the TLS certificates.

  ```
  docker-machine regenerate-certs azuredockervm
  ```

13.   Review the output returned by the  **docker-machine env** command.
14.   In the  **Administrator: Command** **Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  @FOR /f "tokens=*" %i IN ('docker-machine env azuredockervm') DO @%i
  ```


#### Task 4: Run a container in a Docker host running in a Hyper-V virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Server Manager** window click **Tools**. 
2.   On the  **Tools** menu, click **Hyper-V** **Manager**.
3.   In the  **Hyper-V** **Manager** window, in the list of virtual machines, right-click **localdockervm**, and then click  **Connect**.
4.   At the command prompt in the console of the  **localdockervm** virtual machine, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker run -d -p 80:80 --restart=always nginx
  ```

  Wait until the container for nginx is downloaded and started on the Docker host virtual machine. This might take a few minutes depending on the available bandwidth.

5.   To obtain the IP address of the target Docker virtual machine hosting the containerized application, type the following command at the command prompt on  **localdockervm**, and then press Enter. 

  ```
  ifconfig eth0
  ```

  Look at the second line of the output, and note the IP address following the  **inet addr:** string.

6.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the  **Welcome to nginx** page.
  
  >  **Note:** The ability to connect to nginx depends on the availability of DHCP in the lab environment.


#### Task 5: Run a container in a Docker host running in an Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker run -d -p 80:80 --restart=always nginx
  ```

2.   To verify the successful outcome, in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker ps
  ```

3.   To obtain the IP address of the target Azure Docker VM hosting the containerized application, in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker-machine ip azuredockervm
  ```

4.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the  **Welcome to nginx** page.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully installed Docker Toolbox for Windows, created a Docker host in a Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine, created a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine by using Docker Machine, and run a sample containerized web server nginx on both Docker host virtual machines.


## Exercise 2: Deploying a private Docker Registry in Azure
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure storage account
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at  **http://portal.azure.com**, and when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, click  **New**. 
3.   In the  **New** blade, click **Storage**. 
4.   In the  **Storage** blade, click **Storage account**.
5.   In the  **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:
  -   Name: a unique name from 3 through 24 characters that includes lowercase letters and digits
  -   Deployment model:  **Resource Manager**
  -   Account kind:  **General purpose**
  -   Performance:  **Standard**
  -   Replication:  **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**
  -   Storage service encryption:  **Disabled**
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource group: ensure that  **Create new** is selected, and then type **DockerRegistryRG**
  -   Location:  **Central US**
  -   Pin to dashboard: leave cleared
6.   Wait until the storage account is created before you proceed to the next exercise. This should take about one minute. 


#### Task 2: Deploy a private Docker Registry
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, in the  **hub** menu, click **Resource groups**.
2.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **docker-machine**.
3.   In the  **docker-machine** blade, click **azuredockervm-firewall**.
4.   In the  **azuredockervm-firewall** blade, click **Inbound security rules**.
5.   In the inbound security rules for azuredockervm-firewall, click  **Add**.
6.   In the  **Add inbound security rule** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:
  -   Name:  **RegistryAllowAny**

  -   Priority: accept the default value

  -   Source:  **Any**

  -   Service:  **Custom**

  -   Protocol:  **Any**

  -   Port range:  **5000**

  -   Action:  **Allow**

7.   In the Azure portal, in the  **hub** menu, click **More services**. 
8.   In the list of services, click  **Storage accounts**.
9.   In the  **Storage accounts** blade, click the entry representing the storage account you created in the previous task.
10.   In the storage account blade, click  **Access keys**.
11.   In the storage account keys blade, take the note of the storage account name and the value of key1.
12.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window **,** type the following command, and then press Enter. Replace the _storage-account-name_ with the name of the storage account and replace the _storage-account-key_ with the value of key1.

  ```
  docker run -d -p 5000:5000 -e REGISTRY_STORAGE=azure -e REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_ACCOUNTNAME="storage-account-name" -e REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_ACCOUNTKEY="storage-account-key" -e REGISTRY_STORAGE_AZURE_CONTAINER="registry" 
--name=registry registry:2
  ```

13.   Wait for the new registry container to be provisioned. 
14.   In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker ps
  ```

15.   Verify that the output includes the newly created registry. 


#### Task 3: Upload an image to the private Docker Registry
  
1.   On MIA-CL1 **,** in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker pull hello-world:latest
  ```

  This pulls the most recent image of the hello-world container image from the Docker Hub.

2.   In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker tag hello-world localhost:5000/hello-world
  ```

  This tags the image and designates its repository to be the newly created registry.

3.   In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker push localhost:5000/hello-world
  ```

  This pushes the image into the registry. 

4.   Switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the Azure portal.
5.   In the Azure portal, in the  **hub** menu, click **More** **services**. 
6.   In the list of services, click  **Storage accounts**.
7.   In the  **Storage accounts** blade, click the name of the storage account you created in the first task of this exercise.
8.   In the blade of the storage account, click  **Blobs**.
9.   In the  **Blob service** blade, click **registry**.
10.   In the  **registry** blade, click the folder icon.
11.   Click  **docker**.
12.   Click  **registry**.
13.   In the  **registry** blade, click **v2**.
14.   In the  **v2** blade, click **repositories**. The  **repositories** blade contains the **hello-world** entry, representing the newly uploaded container image.


#### Task 4: Download and deploy images from the private Docker Registry
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker pull localhost:5000/hello-world
  ```

  This pulls the most recent image of the hello-world container image from the private Docker Registry.

2.   In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker run -d --restart=always hello-world
  ```

  This deploys the image downloaded from the private Docker Registry and runs it continuously.

3.   To verify that the image has been successfully deployed, in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  docker ps
  ```

  Note that the output includes the hello-world image. 


#### Task 5: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   In the Azure portal, in the  **hub** menu, click **Resource groups**.
2.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **DockerRegistryRG**.
3.   In the  **DockerRegistryRG** blade, click **Delete**.
4.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "DockerRegistryRG"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
5.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **docker-machine**.
6.   In the  **docker-machine** blade, click **Delete**.
7.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "docker-machine"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, type the name of the resource group, and then click **Delete**.
8.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a private Docker registry in Azure.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
