# Module 2: Integrating with Azure Compute Services
# Lab A: Uploading an on-premises virtual disk file to Azure
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation plans to upload virtual disk files to accommodate moving workloads from on-premises Hyper V virtual machines to Azure virtual machines. A. Datum Corporation also wants to deploy virtual machines in Azure by using its standard corporate operating-system image for both Windows and Linux hosts. For this reason, as part of the company’s evaluation of integration with Azure, you have been asked to test an upload of on-premises virtual disk files to Azure.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Prepare an Azure subscription and on-premises virtual disk files for an upload to Azure.
-   Upload virtual disk files to Azure.

  > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 20 minutes

Virtual machine: **10992B-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click MT17B-WS2016-NAT, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click 10992B-MIA-CL1, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**
4.   In Hyper-V Manager, click 10992B-MIA-CL1, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**
5.   Sign into 10992B-MIA-CL1 by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Preparing for an upload of a virtual disk file to Azure
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation configures its Hyper V virtual disk files in the VHDX format. You realize that Azure requires that its virtual machine disk files are in the VHD format. You plan to first create a sample fixed .vhdx file and test converting it to the VHD format. Next, you will create an Azure storage account where the virtual disk file will reside after the upload. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure storage account
2.   Create a VHDX virtual disk
3.   Convert the VHDX virtual disk to the VHD format


#### Task 1: Create an Azure storage account
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal, and then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure portal, create a new storage account with the following settings:

  -   Name: a unique name between 3 and 24 characters in length, which can include lowercase letters and digits
  -   Deployment model: **Resource Manager**
  -   Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**
  -   Performance: **Standard**
  -   Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**
  -   Secure tansfer required: **Disabled**
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource group: ensure that the **Create new** option is selected, and then type **10992B0201-LabRG**
  -   Location: any Azure region where you can create a storage account
  -   Configure virtual networks: **Disabled**
  -   Pin to dashboard: leave unchecked

3.   Do not wait until the storage account is created, but proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Create a VHDX virtual disk
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Computer Management.
2.   In the **Computer Management** console, click **Disk Management**.
3.   From the **Disk Management** snap-in of the **Computer Management** console, create a new virtual disk with the following settings:

  -   Location: **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod02\\Labfiles\\datadisk01.vhdx**
  -   Virtual hard disk size: **1 GB**
  -   Virtual hard disk format: **VHDX**
  -   Virtual hard disk type: **Dynamically expanding**

4.   Detach the newly created disk.
5.   Close **Computer Management**.


#### Task 3: Convert the VHDX virtual disk to the VHD format
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Windows PowerShell as an administrator.
2.   From the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, use the **Convert-VHD** cmdlet to convert the .vhdx disk file into the VHD format.
3.   Wait until the conversion completes. This should take a few seconds

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure storage account, created a fixed .vhdx virtual disk file, and converted it to the VHD format.


## Exercise 2: Uploading a virtual disk file to Azure
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you converted the virtual disk file to the VHD format and created an Azure storage account, you are ready to upload the .vhd file. You will accomplish this by using the AzCopy.exe utility.

A. Datum Corporation wants to minimize the cost associated with testing Azure capabilities. You need to identify and delete all the resources you deploy during your tests.

A. Datum Corporation wants to minimize the cost associated with testing Azure capabilities. You need to identify and delete all the resources you deploy during your tests.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Upload the .vhd file to the Azure storage account
2.   Convert an uploaded .vhd file into a managed data disk
3.   Provision an Azure VM
4.   Attach a managed data disk to an Azure VM
5.   Identify and delete all the Azure resources used in the lab


#### Task 1: Upload the .vhd file to the Azure storage account
  
1.   At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, sign in to the Azure subscription by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   If you have multiple subscriptions, then at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, run the **Select-AzureRmSubscription** cmdlet to select the subscription where you created the storage account in the previous exercise.
3.   Run the **Add-AzureRmVhd** cmdlet to upload the .vhd file to the storage account you created in the previous exercise.

  > **Note:** Because the **Add-AzureRmVhd** cmdlet copies only the content of the VHD file that is in use, the upload should take a few seconds. In addition, the cmdlet automatically converts the dynamically expanding disk into the fixed format.


#### Task 2: Convert an uploaded .vhd file into a managed data disk
  
1.   Run the **New-AzureRmDiskConfig** cmdlet to define the managed disk configuration referencing the .vhd file you uploaded in the previous task. 
2.   Run the **New-AzureRmDisk** cmdlet to convert the uploaded .vhd file into a managed disk


#### Task 3: Provision an Azure VM

1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   Browse to the Azure portal and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal, create a new Azure VM based on the **Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS** image by using the Azure Resource Manager deployment model with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10992B0201-vm1**
  -   VM disk type: **HDD**
  -   User name: **student**
  -   Authentication type: **Password**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Subscription: select the name of the Azure subscription where you created the storage account in the first exercise of this lab
  -   Resource group: **10992B0201-LabRG**
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you created the storage account in the first exercise of this lab
  -   Size: any available, low-priced VM size
  -   Availability set: **None**
  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**
  -   Virtual network: accept the default value, which creates a new virtual network
  -   Subnet: accept the default setting, which creates a new subnet named **default**
  -   Public IP address: accept the default value, which will create a new public IP address
  -   Network security group: accept the default value, which will create a new network security group allowing connectivity via SSH
  -   Extensions: **No extensions**
  -   Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**
  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**
  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

4.   On the **Summary** blade, click **Create**.
5.   Wait for the deployment to complete.


#### Task 4: Attach a managed data disk to an Azure VM

1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **10992B0201-vm1** blade. 
2.   Attach the data disk **datadisk01** to the Azure VM, leaving **HOST CACHING** set to its default value.
3.   Wait until the disk is successfully attached to the Azure VM.


#### Task 5: Identify and delete all the Azure resources used in the lab
  
1.   From the Azure portal, delete the **10992B0201-LabRG** resource group.
2.   Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully uploaded the .vhd file to an Azure storage account. After the upload completes, you should have converted the uploaded .vhd file into a managed disk. Next, you should have deployed an Azure Linux VM and attached the managed disk to it as its data disk. Finally, you should have identified and removed all of the Azure resources that you created for this lab by using the Azure portal.


 
**Question** 
What type of conversion is necessary prior to uploading virtual disk files to an Azure storage account?

**Question** 
What would be your primary considerations when downloading virtual disk files from Azure to your on-premises computers?



# Lab B: Moving containers between on-premises Hyper-V virtual machines and Azure virtual machines
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation wants to implement some of its workloads as Docker containers. The intention is to host the same containers in Azure virtual machines and in on-premises virtual machines. A. Datum Corporation also wants to deploy its own private Docker Registry to store containerized images. Your task is to determine what tools you can use to deploy the containers in a hybrid environment. You also need to evaluate the use of a private Docker Registry. 


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine and in an on-premises Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine.
-   Deploy a private Docker Registry in Azure.

  > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machine: **10992B-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign into **10992B-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Creating a Docker host by using Docker Machine
  
### Scenario
  
To test the planned deployment, you must identify the tool that will allow you to deploy Docker hosts to both Azure virtual machines and on-premises Hyper-V virtual machines. You decide to evaluate the Docker Toolbox for Windows. After you deploy the two Docker host virtual machines, you intend to use Docker Machine, included in the Docker Toolbox, to verify that they are both operational. To accomplish this, you want to install and run a sample containerized web server named nginx, which is available from GitHub, on each one.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install Docker Toolbox for Windows
2.   Create a Docker host in a Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine 
3.   Create a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine by using Docker Machine
4.   Run a container in a Docker host running in a Hyper-V virtual machine
5.   Run a container in a Docker host running in an Azure virtual machine


#### Task 1: Install Docker Toolbox for Windows

1.   On MIA-CL1, run the installation of Docker for Windows (Stable) from https://www.docker.com/products/docker-toolbox 
2.   Sign out from MIA-CL1 to complete the installation.


#### Task 2: Create a Docker host in a Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine
  
1.   Sign back into MIA-CL1 by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.   On MIA-CL1, start Command Prompt as administrator.
3.   From the **Administrator: Command Prompt**, use the **docker-machine create** command to create a Hyper-V VM named *localdockervm** attached to the external Hyper-V switch and hosting Docker Machine
4.   Wait for the new Microsoft Hyper-V virtual machine to be provisioned. This might take a few minutes. If the boot2docker ISO image is out-of-date, Docker Machine will initiate download of the latest version.


#### Task 3: Create a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine by using Docker Machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, from the**Administrator: Command Prompt**, use the `az login` command to sign in to the Azure subscription by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   If you have multiple subscriptions associated with the account you used to authenticate, specify the target subscription for this lab by using the `az account set` command.
3.   From the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, identify Ubuntu images that you can use in this lab by using the `az vm image list-skus` command. Use the same Azure region where you provisioned an Azure VM in the first lab of this module.
4.   From the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, create a new resource group named **10992B0202-LabRG** in the Azure region you specified in step 3 by using the `az group create` command. 
5.   From the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, change the current directory to **%USERPROFILE%**.
6.   From the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, run the `docker-machine create` command to create an Azure VM-based Docker host named **10992b0202-vm1** with the following parameters:

  -   --azure-ssh-user: **student**
  -   --azure-open-port: **80** and **8080**
  -   --azure-image: the image you identified in step 3
  -   --azure-location: the Azure region you used in step 3
  -   --azure-resource-group: **10992B0202-LabRG**
  -   --azure-size: the size of the Azure VM you provisioned in the first lab of this module
  -   --azure-static-public-ip: enabled

7.   Wait for the new Docker Azure VM to be provisioned. 
8.   From the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, run the `docker-machine ls` command to enumerate Docker hosts. Verify that the output includes both the Hyper-V virtual machine and the Azure VM. 
9.   From the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, run the `docker-machine env` command to configure command prompt environment to allow you to work directly with the Azure VM-based Docker host.


#### Task 4: Run a container in a Docker host running in a Hyper-V virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Hyper-V Manager. 
2.   In the **Hyper-V Manager** window, connect to the console of **localdockervm**. 
3.   At the command prompt in the console of the **localdockervm**, use the `docker run` command to launch persistent nginx container accessible via port 80. Wait until the container for nginx is downloaded and started on the Docker host virtual machine. This might take a few minutes depending on the available bandwidth.
  > **Note:** The ability to download the nginx image and connect to the nginx-based container depends on the availability of DHCP in the lab environment.

4.   Identify the IP address of the Docker host virtual machine by using `ifconfig eth0` command. 
5.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the  **Welcome to nginx** page.
  

#### Task 5: Run a container in a Docker host running in an Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, from the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, run the `docker run` command to launch persistent nginx container accessible via port 80 on the Docker host in the Azure VM. Wait until the container for nginx is downloaded and started on the Docker host virtual machine. This might take a few minutes depending on the available bandwidth.
2.   On MIA-CL1, from the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, run the `docker ps` command to verify that the nginx container is running.
3.   On MIA-CL1, from the **Adminstrator: Command Prompt**, run the `docker-machine ip` command to identify the IP address of the target Azure virtual machine that hosts the nginx container. 
4.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the  **Welcome to nginx** page.
5.   Leave the Internet Explorer window open.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully installed Docker Toolbox for Windows, created a Docker host in a Hyper-V virtual machine by using Docker Machine, created a Docker host in an Azure virtual machine by using Docker Machine, and run a sample containerized web server nginx on both Docker host virtual machines.


## Exercise 2: Deploying a private Docker Registry in Azure
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have successfully implemented a Docker host in an on-premises Hyper-V virtual machine and in an Azure virtual machine, you want to test the setup and image deployment by using a private Docker Registry in Azure. To simplify your tests, you will use a small, sample hello-world image available from the Docker Hub Registry. You will start by creating a private registry hosted in an Azure storage account. You will then download the sample image to your lab computer and upload it to the newly created private registry. Finally, you will deploy the image from the private registry to both the Azure and the on-premises Docker hosts.

Because A. Datum Corporation wants to minimize the cost associated with testing Azure capabilities, you will identify and delete all the resources you deploy during your tests.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure Container Registry
2.   Identify Azure Container Registry authentication settings.
3.   Push an image to Azure Container Registry.
4.   Download and deploy images from the Azure Container Registry
5.   Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
6.   Prepare for the next lab


#### Task 1: Create an Azure Container Registry
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, create a new **Azure Container Registry** with the following settings:

  -   Registry name: a unique name consisting of between 5 and 50 alphanumeric characters
  -   Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab
  -   Resource group: create a new resource group named **10992B0203-LabRG**
  -   Location : select any Azure location where you can create an Azure Container Registry, preferably the same one hosting the Azure VM you deployed earlier in this exercise
  -   Admin user: **Enable** (this allows you to use the registry name as username and admin user access key as password to access the registry)
  -   SKU : **Basic**

2.   Wait for the operation to complete.


#### Task 2: Identify Azure Container Registry authentication settings.
  
1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the blade of the Azure container registry you created in the previous task.
2.   On the container registry blade, copy the container registry password to Clipboard. 
3.   Note the values of the **Username** and the **Login server** entries. The username should match the registry name and the login server name should consist of the registry name followed by the **.azurecr.io** suffix.


#### Task 3: Push an image to Azure Container Registry
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, log in to the Azure Container registry you created in the first task by running the `docker login` command, providing the value of the `login-server` parameter you identified in the previous task as well as the following parameters:

  - `--username`: **Username** you identified in the previous task
  - `--password`: **password** you copied to Clipboard in the previous task

2.   Ensure that you receive the **Login succeeded** message. Next, pull the **microsoft/aci-helloworld** image from Docker Hub by running the `docker pull` command from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window. 
3.   Wait for the image to be downloaded to the Docker Azure VM. Next, tag the image with the Azure Container registry name by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the `docker tag` command with the `<login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1` parameter, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified in the previous task.
4.   Push the tagged image to the Azure Container registry by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the `docker push` command with the `<login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1` parameter, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified in the previous task.
5.   Wait for the image to be pushed to the registry. Next, in the Azure portal, from the container registry blade, verify that the Azure Container registry contains the **aci-helloworld** repository


#### Task 4: Download and deploy images from the private Docker Registry
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, pull the newly tagged image from the Azure Container registry, by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the `docker pull` command with the `<login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1` parameter, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified earlier in this exercise.
2.   Note that the image does not need to be downloaded, since it is already present on the target Docker Azure VM. 
3.   Deploy the image downloaded from the Azure Container registry, by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the `docker run` command with the `<login-server>/aci-helloworld:v1` parameter, replacing the `<login-server>` entry with the value you identified earlier in this exercise. Deploy the web service running in the container such that it is accessible via port **8080**. 
4.   Run the `docker ps` command to verify that the image has been successfully deployed.
5.   Note that the output includes the tagged image. 
6.   To access the running container, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the **Welcome to nginx!** page, and change the target port to **8080**. Verify that the **Welcome to Azure Container Instances** page is being displayed.


#### Task 5: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   From the Azure portal, delete the **10992B0202-LabRG** resource group.
2.   From the Azure portal, delete the **10992B0203-LabRG** resource group
3.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.
3.   In the **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a private Docker registry in Azure.


  
**Question** 
Which tools would you use to manage hybrid deployments of Docker containers?

**Question** 
How can you use Azure when configuring a private Docker Registry?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
