# Module 1: Introduction to Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, and Visual Studio to deploy and manage Azure resources
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation is an engineering, manufacturing, and distribution company. The organization is based in London, England, with major offices located in Dallas, Texas in the United States, and Singapore. The two main locations in London and Dallas consist of a datacenter and adjacent office buildings. The office building in Singapore contains a server room. In addition, there are a number of small regional branch offices and distribution centers. The company is currently expanding its network of business partnerships and providing additional services to customers. 

The IT infrastructure at A. Datum is expanding rapidly and the company is interested in minimizing the cost of the expansion. The datacenter in London is close to maximum capacity for space and power.

To address existing challenges, A. Datum is considering utilizing Azure services to enhance the capabilities and capacity of its on-premises deployments. You are responsible for identifying Azure services that would help A. Datum to accomplish this objective. Your first task is to explore and compare management features by using the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell, and Visual Studio.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you should be able to:

-   Create an Azure VM by using the Azure portal interface following both the classic deployment model and the Azure Resource manager deployment model.
-   Create an Azure VM by using Azure PowerShell following with both the classic deployment model and the Azure Resource manager deployment model.
-   Create and deploy an Azure Resource Manager template that provisions an Azure VM.
 
  >  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 50 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10992A-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Student**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign into  **10992A-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:

  -   User name:  **Student**
  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Deploying Microsoft Azure VMs by using the Azure portal
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to explore feature associated with both Azure Resource Manager and classic deployment models. You need to evaluate each deployment model by using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Deploy a classic Azure VM by using the Azure portal 
2.   Deploy an Azure Resource Manager VM by using the Azure portal


#### Task 1: Deploy a classic Azure VM by using the Azure portal
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   Browse to the Azure portal and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal, scroll through the list of Azure services and resources.

  >  **Note:** The list includes a few entries with the term (classic) - including Cloud Services (classic), OS disks (classic), Reserved IP addresses (classic), Storage accounts (classic), Virtual machines (classic) and Virtual networks (classic). These options would allow you to view services provisioned by using the Azure classic deployment model.

4.   In the Azure portal, create a new  **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** VM by using the **Classic** deployment model with the following settings.

  >  **Note:** The new VM will by default have two endpoints - one to allow incoming RDP connections and the other to allow WinRM connections.

  -   Name: **classicvm1**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Confirm password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription name

  -   Resource group:  **Create new**

  -   New resource group:  **classicvm1RG**

  -   Location: Specify the Azure region provided by the instructor.

  -   Size:  **D1 Standard**

  -   Disk type:  **Standard**

  -   Storage account: Accept the default value, which creates a new storage account

  -   Virtual network: Accept the default value, which creates a new virtual network

  -   Subnet:  **default (10.0.0.0/24)**

  -   Private IP address:  **Dynamic**

  -   Virtual IP address:  **Dynamic**

  -   Endpoints:  **2** **endpoints configured**

  -   Extensions:  **No extensions**

  -   Diagnostics:  **Disabled**

  -   Availability set:  **None**
    
  >  **Note:** Note that name of the Azure region. You will need it in the next exercise.

5.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, and instead proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager VM by using the Azure portal
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, from the Azure portal, create a new  **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** VM by using the **Azure Resource Manager** deployment model with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **armvm1**

  -   VM disk type:  **HDD**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription name

  -   Resource group:  **Create new**

  -   New resource group:  **armvm1RG**

  -   Location: The same Azure region that you selected in the previous task.

  -   Size:  **D1 Standard**

  -   Storage account: Accept the default value, which creates a new storage account

  -   Virtual network: Accept the default value, which creates a new virtual network

  -   Subnet:  **default (10.0.0.0/24)**

  -   Public IP address: Accept the default value, which creates a new public IP address

  -   Network security group: Accept the default value, which creates a new network security group

  -   Extensions:  **No extensions**

  -   Diagnostics:  **Disabled**

  -   Availability set:  **None**
  
  >  **Note:** The new VM does not have any endpoints assigned. Instead, it has a Public IP address and a network security group.

2.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next exercise.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a classic and Azure Resource Manager VM by using the Azure portal.


## Exercise 2: Deploying Azure VMs by using Azure PowerShell
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to explore automation capabilities associated with both Azure Resource Manager and classic deployment models. You need to evaluate each deployment model by using Azure PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Deploy a classic VM by using an Azure PowerShell script
2.   Deploy an Azure Resource Manager VM by using Azure PowerShell


#### Task 1: Deploy a classic VM by using an Azure PowerShell script
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start  **Windows PowerShell ISE** as an Administrator.
2.   In the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, open the **D:\\Mod01\\Labfiles\\New-10992ClassicVM.ps1** script.

  >  **Note:** It provisions a new Azure VM by using classic deployment model, as indicated by the format of the Azure PowerShell cmdlets (without the **Rm** string following **-Azure**). In addition, the script does not contain any references to resource groups.

3.   In the script, replace the **_&lt;subscription\_name&gt;_** placeholder with the name of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the script, replace the **_&lt;Azure\_region\_name&gt;_** placeholder with the name of the Azure region provided by the instructor.
5.   Save the changes.
6.   Execute the script.
7.   When prompted, sign in with the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
8.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager VM by using Azure PowerShell
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, open the **D:\\Mod01\\Labfiles\\New-10992ARMVM.ps1** script.
2.   Review the content of the script.

  >  **Note:** This script provisions a new Azure VM by using Azure Resource Manager deployment model, as indicated by the format of the Azure PowerShell cmdlets (with the **Rm** string following **-Azure**). In addition, the script contains a reference to a resource group.

3.   In the script, replace the **_&lt;subscription\_name&gt;_** placehoder with the name of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the script, replace the **_&lt;Azure\_region\_name&gt;_** placehoder with the name of the Azure region provided by the instructor.
5.   Save the changes.
6.   Execute the script.
7.   When prompted, sign in with the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
8.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next task.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully deployed a classic VM and an Azure Resource Manager VM by using Azure PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Creating and deploying an Azure Resource Manager deployment template
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to explore declarative deployment capabilities offered by Azure Resource Manager. You need to create a sample Azure Resource Manager deployment template to provision an Azure VM, and then deploy it to a new resource group by using Visual Studio.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure Resource Manager template
2.   Deploy an Azure Resource Manager template from Visual Studio


#### Task 1: Create an Azure Resource Manager template
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Visual Studio and create a new  **Cloud Visual C#** project based on the **Azure Resource Group Cloud** template, with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **armvm3RG**

  -   Location:  **D:\\Mod01\\Labfiles**

  -   Solution:  **Create new solution**

  -   Solution name:  **armvm3RG**

  -   The  **Create directory for solution** checkbox: enabled

2.   Use the  **Windows Virtual Machine** Azure template to populate the project.
3.   View the content of the  **WindowsVirtualMachine.json** file and its **JSON Outline**.
4.   In the  **JSON Outline** window, review the list of parameters and resources.

  >  **Note:** Resources include a storage account, a public IP address, a virtual network, a network interface, and a VM. In addition, the **VirtualMachine** entry contains the **AzureDiagnostics** VM extension.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Resource Manager template from Visual Studio
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Visual Studio interface, in the Solution Explorer window, initiate the build of the project.
2.   From the Solution Explorer window, initiate a new deployment.
3.   From the  **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, sign in to your Azure subscription with the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   Edit parameters of the template deployment by using the following settings:

  -   adminUsername:  **Student**

  -   adminPassword:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   dnsNameForPublicIP: type a unique name that will be assigned to the public IP address of the VM

  -   windowsOSVersion:  **2012-R2-Datacenter**

  -   The  **Save passwords as plain text in the parameters file** check box: enabled

5.   From the  **Deploy to Resource Group** dialog box, create a new resource group named **armvm3RG** in the same Azure region provided by the instructor.
6.   Start the deployment.
7.   Monitor the progress of deployment by viewing entries in the  **Output** window.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully created and deployed an Azure Resource Manager template that provisions a new Azure VM by using Visual Studio.


## Exercise 4: Identify and delete newly deployed resources
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to minimize cost associated with testing Azure capabilities. You need to identify and delete all of the resources that you deployed during your tests.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
2.   Identify and delete all lab classic resources


#### Task 1: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer.
2.   Browse to the Azure portal, and when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the  **Resource groups** blade, and then delete the **armvm1RG**,  **armvm2RG**, and  **armvm3RG** resource groups.

  >  **Note:** The resource group contains, in addition to the VMs, all of their resources, including network interfaces, network security groups, public IP addresses, virtual networks, and storage accounts.


#### Task 2: Identify and delete all lab classic resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, navigate to the  **Resource Groups** blade.
2.   From the  **Resource Groups** blade, delete the **classicvm1RG** resource group.

  >  **Note:** In addition to the **classicvm1** VM, the resource group contains all of its associated resources, including the cloud service, virtual network, and storage account.

3.   From the  **Resource groups** blade, delete the resource group whose name starts with the **classicvm2svc** prefix.

  >  **Note:** This is the resource group corresponds to the cloud service that you provisioned in Task 2 of Exercise.


  >  **Note:** The resource group contains the VM and the corresponding cloud service. There is no virtual network, since the script did not deploy the VM into a virtual network. The storage account resides in a separate resource group.

4.   From the  **Resource groups** blade, delete the resource group whose name starts with the **Default-Storage** prefix, followed by the name of the region to which you deployed the VM in task 1 of exercise 2.

  >  **Note:** The resource group contains the classic storage account. Due to dependencies of virtual machines on the storage account residing in the Default-Storage resource group, ensure that other resource groups have been successfully deleted before proceeding with step 8.

5.   Close all open windows

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have used the Azure portal to successfully remove the classic VMs and Azure Resource Manager VMs that you created, and all of their associated resources.



## 
  
**Question** 
Which deployment methodology would you use to provision a multi-tier solution in Azure?

**Question** 
What method would you use to create a Resource Manager template?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  