# Module 7: Integrating operations and application monitoring and management
# Lab: Implementing Azure Automation
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation wishes to minimize the administrative overhead of their on-premises Windows Server computers as much as possible. For this reason, as part of A. Datum Corporation's evaluation of integration with Microsoft Azure, your manager has asked you to test the hybrid Azure Automation features. As part of your tests, you will run a custom Windows PowerShell script on an on-premises virtual machine by using the Hybrid Runbook Worker functionality.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create and configure an Operations Management Suite workspace and an Azure Automation account.
-   Configure an on-premises computer as a Hybrid Runbook Worker.
-   Run a runbook on a Hybrid Runbook Worker and identify the outcome.

  >  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 40 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10992A-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Student**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign in to 10992A-MIA-CL1 by using the following credentials:
  -   User name:  **Student**
  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
### Scenario
  
In order to test hybrid Azure Automation features that A. Datum Corporation wishes to implement, you first need to implement and configure an Operations Management Suite workspace. Since you already have an Azure subscription, you will use its capabilities to accomplish your objective. You will also provision an Automation account and create a sample automation runbook to use in your tests

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Automation Account
2.   Create an Operations Management Suite workspace
3.   Add the Automation Hybrid Worker and Automation &amp; Control solutions to the Operations Management Suite workspace
4.   Create a runbook


#### Task 1: Create an Automation Account
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer, and then go to the Azure portal. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   Create a new  **Automation** account with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **AdatumAutomation**

  -   Subscription: Specify the name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group (Create new):  **OMSRG**

  -   Location: Specify the Azure region provided by the instructor.

  -   Create Azure Run As account:  **No**

  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the checkbox cleared


3.   Wait until the service is provisioned. This should take about a minute.


#### Task 2: Create an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   Create a new  **OMS Workspace** with the following settings:
  -   OMS Workspace:  **oms10992** followed by a random sequence of up to 16 characters. The name must be globally unique _._

  -   Subscription: Specify the name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group (Use existing):  **OMSRG**

  -   Location: The same Azure region that you selected in the previous task.

  -   Pricing tier:  **Free**

  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the checkbox cleared


2.   Wait until the service is provisioned. This should take about a minute.
3.   In the Azure portal, go to the newly created OMS workspace.
4.   From the  **OMS Workspace** blade, go to the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal.


#### Task 3: Add the Automation Hybrid Worker and Automation &amp; Control solutions to the Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   In the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, go to **Solutions Gallery**.
2.   Add the  **Automation Hybrid Worker** solution.
3.   Add the  **Automation &amp; Control** solution.
4.   On the  **Automation &amp; Control** page, keep the **Change Tracking** and **Update Management** checkboxes selected, and click **Configure Workspace**
5.   From the  **Automation Account** page, use the existing Automation account named **AdatumAutomation**.
6.   Leave the tab displaying the  **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal open.


#### Task 4: Create a runbook
  
1.   From the  **AdatumAutomation** Azure Automation account in the Azure portal, import the **D:\\Mod07\\Labfiles\\New-10992Workflow.ps1** runbook as the **PowerShell Workflow**.
2.   Review the content of the workflow, and then publish the runbook.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully created an OMS workspace. You should have also added the Azure Automation &amp; Control solution to your workspace, created a new Azure Automation account and imported a sample Windows PowerShell Workflow-based runbook.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an on-premises computer as a Hybrid Runbook Worker
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have configured all the Azure components that are necessary to perform your tests, it is time to configure your on-premises test computer. You will need to install the Microsoft Management Agent so that your test computer can communicate with OMS and the Automation account. You will also need to install the runbook environment and connect it to Azure Automation. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install the Microsoft Management Agent on the lab virtual machine
2.   Install the runbook environment and connect to Azure Automation


#### Task 1: Install the Microsoft Management Agent on the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, switch to the **Connected Sources** tab of the **Settings** dashboard.

  >  **Note:** You might need to refresh the page if your connection times out

2.   Download and start installation of the **Microsoft Management Agent (64-bit) for Windows**.
3.   In the  **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, on the **Agent Setup Options** page, select the **Connect the agent to Azure Log Analytics (OMS)** checkbox.
4.   Copy the  **WORKSPACE ID** and the **PRIMARY KEY** from the **Connected Sources** tab of the **Settings** dashboard of the OMS portal.
5.   Paste each value, respectively, to the  **Workspace ID** textbox and the **Workspace Key** textbox in the Microsoft **Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard.
6.   Complete the installation of the agent.


#### Task 2: Install the runbook environment and connect to Azure Automation
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window displaying the Azure portal and scroll back to the AdatumAutomation blade.
2.   Copy the values of the  **URL** and **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entries of the **AdatumAutomation** Automation account into Notepad.
3.   On  **MIA-CL1**, open  **Windows PowerShell ISE** as an administrator.
4.   Run the following command from the  **Windows PowerShell ISE** console where the **_&lt;version&gt;_** placeholder represents the version of the Azure Automation component provided by the instructor:

  ```
  Set-Location 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\Agent\AzureAutomation\<version>\HybridRegistration'
  ```

5.   From the  **Windows PowerShell ISE** console, run the following command:

  ```
  Import-Module -FullyQualifiedName .\HybridRegistration.psd1
  ```

6.   From the  **Windows PowerShell ISE** console, run the following command (replacing the placeholders **_&lt;url&gt;_** and **_&lt;key&gt;_** with the values of the **URL** and **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entries that you copied to Notepad):

  ```
  Add-HybridRunbookWorker -GroupName AdatumLabWorkerGroup -Url <url> -Key <key>
  ```

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully installed the Microsoft Management Agent on your lab computer and installed the runbook environment and connected the Hybrid Runbook Worker component to the Azure Automation service.


## Exercise 3: Running a runbook on a Hybrid Runbook Worker and examining the outcome
  
### Scenario
  
Finally, with all the components in place, you are ready to perform your testing. You will start the sample runbook from the on-premises lab virtual machine and then initiate its execution from the Azure portal. You will examine results of both of these actions. Finally, to minimize the cost of your testing, you will identify and delete all the Azure resources that you created in this lab.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Start the runbook from the lab virtual machine
2.   Start the runbook from the Azure portal
3.   Examine the outcome of the runbook execution
4.   Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources


#### Task 1: Start the runbook from the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the console pane of the  **Windows PowerShell ISE window**, run the following command:

  ```
  Add-AzureRmAccount
  ```

2.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the console pane of the  **Windows PowerShell ISE** window, run the following command:

  ```
  Start-AzureRmAutomationRunbook -AutomationAccountName AdatumAutomation -Name Write-10992HelloWorld -RunOn AdatumLabWorkerGroup -ResourceGroupName OMSRG -Parameters @{Name='AdatumLabWorld (local)'}
  ```


#### Task 2: Start the runbook from the Azure portal
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window showing the Azure portal, and then from the **AdatumAutomation** blade, start the **Write-10992HelloWorld** runbook with the following settings:
  -   Parameters NAME:  **AdatumLabWorld (from the Azure Portal)**

  -   Run on:  **Hybrid Worker**

  -   Choose Hybrid Worker group:  **AdatumLabWorkerGroup**.

2.   Monitor the job status as it changes from Queued through Started and to Completed. Verify that there were no errors or warnings.


#### Task 3: Examine the outcome of the runbook execution
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in  **the Internet Explorer** window showing the Azure portal, view the listing of jobs executed in the previous tasks of this exercise.
2.   View the streams generated by the most recent job.


#### Task 4: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, navigate to the  **Resource groups** blade.
2.   From the  **Resource group** blade, delete the **OMSRG**, 
3.   Close the  **Internet Explorer** window.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully started the Automation runbook from the lab virtual machine as well as from the Azure portal and verified that both of them completed successfully. 



## 
  
**Question** 
What is the reason that you did not have to create the Run As Azure Automation account in the lab?

**Question** 
How can you determine the outcome of Azure Automation jobs running on Hybrid Runbook workers?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  