# Module 6: Designing and implementing cross-premises applications
# Lab: Implementing Traffic Manager
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wishes to increase the resiliency and performance of its customer-facing website that currently resides in the perimeter network of the datacenter in London. For this reason, as part of A. Datum's evaluation of integration with Azure, you have been asked to test the resiliency and load balancing capabilities offered by Traffic Manager. Because you do not have access to the perimeter network, you will deploy your test environment in Azure. An Azure virtual machine will emulate your on-premises website. You will also provision an Azure web app in another Azure region. Next, you will use Microsoft Visual Studio to deploy the same web app provided by your development team to the Azure virtual machine and the Azure web app. Finally, you will configure traffic distribution to both of them by using Traffic Manager and testing both their normal operations and their behavior in case of a regional failure.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Deploy web apps to Azure and on-premises virtual machines, as well as to Web Apps.
-   Create and configure Traffic Manager profiles.
-   Test Traffic Manager functionality.

  > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 40 minutes

Virtual machine: **10992B-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Complete the following steps:

On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager

1.   In Hyper-V Manager, click MT17B-WS2016-NAT, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click 10992B-MIA-CL1, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click 10992B-MIA-CL1, and then, in the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**
4.   Sign into 10992B-MIA-CL1 by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Deploying two instances of the test web app.
  
### Scenario
  
To emulate a cross-premises implementation of Traffic Manager, you will deploy an Azure virtual machine that will represent your on-premises web server during testing. You will also deploy an Azure web app that will provide redundancy and scalability by leveraging Traffic Manager redirection and load-balancing capabilities. After both the Azure virtual machine and the Azure web app are online, you will use Visual Studio to deploy the existing web app to them. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure virtual machine
2.   Create an Azure web app
3.   Deploy the test web app to the Azure Web app
4.   Prepare an Azure virtual machine for web app deployment
5.   Deploy the test web app to the Azure virtual machine


#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer. 
2.   Browse to the Azure portal and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal, create a new **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter** virtual machine by using the Resource Manager deployment model with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10992B0601-vm1**
  -   VM disk type: **HDD**
  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab
  -   Resource group: create a new resource group named **10992B0601-LabRG**
  -   Location: the name of an Azure region where you have the ability to provision Azure VMs, closest to the lab location
  -   Already have a Windows Server license: **No**
  -   Size: any available, low-priced VM size
  -   Availability set: **None**
  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**
  -   Virtual network: create a new virtual network with the following settings:

      -   Name: **10992B0601-vnet**
      -   Address space: **10.6.0.0/20**
      -   Subnet name: **subnet-0**
      -   Subnet address range: **10.6.0.0/24**
      -   Subnet: **subnet-0**

  -   Public IP address: create a new static public IP address named **10992B0601-vm1-ip**. 
  -   Network security group: create a new network security group named **10992B0601-vm1-nsg** with the following rules:

      -   Name: default-allow-rdp

          -   Priority: 1000
          -   Port: 80
          -   Protocol: TCP
          -   Source: Any
          -   Destination: Any

      -   Name: allow-HTTP

          -   Priority: 100
          -   Port: 80
          -   Protocol: TCP
          -   Source: Any
          -   Destination: Any

      -   Name: allow-web-management-service

          -   Priority: 200
          -   Port: 8172
          -   Protocol: Any
          -   Source: Any
          -   Destination: Any

  -   Extensions: install the **PowerShell Desired State Configuration** extension with the following settings:

      -   Configuration Modules or Script: **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\LabWebSite.ps1.zip**
      -   Module-qualified Name of Configuration: **LabWebSite.ps1\\LabWebSite**.
      -   Configuration Arguments: leave blank
      -   Configuration Data PSD1 File: leave blank
      -   WMF Version: **5.1**
      -   Data Collection: **Disable**
      -   Version: **2.72**
      -   Auto Upgrade Minor Version: **No**

  -   Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**
  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**
  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

4.   Do not wait for the deployment to complete, but instead proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Create an Azure web app
  
1.   From the Azure portal, create a new Azure web app with the following settings:

  -   App name: any unique name
  -   Resource group: **10992B0601-LabRG**
  -   App Service plan: create an new service plan with the following settings:

    -   Name: **10992B0601-AppServicePlan**
    -   Location: an Azure region on a different continent from the one where you deployed the Azure VM in the previous exercise of this lab.
    -   Pricing tier: **S1 Standard**

2.   Wait for the web app deployment to complete before you proceed to the next task.


#### Task 3: Deploy the test web app to the Azure Web app
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Visual Studio 2017, and then open **F:\\Allfiles\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\AdatumWebsite\\AdatumWebsite.sln**.

  > **Note:** If, after starting Visual Studio you receive the message "Your evaluation period has ended", then sign in to the Visual Studio by following the procedure described in https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio  

2.   From Solution Explorer, publish the **AdatumWebsite** project to the Azure web app you created in the previous task of this exercise.
3.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the **Output** window within the Visual Studio interface, and verify that the web app was successfully published. The Adatum web app automatically opens in the new tab within Visual Studio.
4.   In the Visual Studio window, close the **Browse - Home Page** tab.


#### Task 4: Prepare an Azure virtual machine for web app deployment
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, verify that **10992B0601-vm1** is running. If not, wait until the status changes to **Running**. 
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **10992B0601-vm1-ip** blade, and then set its DNS name label. The label must be unique in the DNS namespace that is specific to the Azure region that you chose. 

  > **Note:** In general, assigning a DNS name is optional when deploying Azure virtual machines. It is mandatory when publishing web apps from Visual Studio and when using Azure virtual machines as Traffic Manager profile endpoints.

3.   In the Azure portal, from the **10992B0601-vm1** blade, launch the Remote Desktop connection to the **10992B0601-vm1** virtual machine.
4.   Sign in to **10992B0601-vm1** with the username **Student** and the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.
5.   Within the Remote Desktop session to **10992B0601-vm1**, from the **Server Manager** window, set the **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration** to **Off** for administrators.
6.   Within the Remote Desktop session to **10992B0601-vm1**, start Internet Explorer,  and then browse to the Web Deploy v3.6 download page at http://aka.ms/v9ha4p
7.   Download and install WebDeploy_amd64_en-US.msi by using the **Complete** setup type.
8.   Close the Remote Desktop session window.


#### Task 5: Deploy the test web app to the Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Visual Studio interface. 
2.   From Visual Studio, publish the **AdatumWebsite** project to the **10992B0601-vm1** Azure virtual machine. 
3.   During publishing process, when prompted to sign in, specify the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

4.   If you are presented with the **Certificate Error** dialog box, select the **Save this certificate for future sessions of Visual Studio** check box, and then click **Accept**.
5.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the **Output** window within the Visual Studio interface, and verify that the web app was successfully published. The Adatum web app automatically opens in the new tab within Visual Studio.
6.   Close the **Browse - Home Page** tab in Visual Studio.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure virtual machine and an Azure web app and deployed an existing web app to both of them by using Visual Studio.


## Exercise 2: Creating and configuring an Azure Traffic Manager profile
  
### Scenario
  
With both the Azure virtual machine and Azure web app running and hosting the web app code, you now are ready to create a Traffic Manager profile with two endpoints. The endpoints represent individual instances of the web app. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a Traffic Manager profile
2.   Configure Traffic Manager


#### Task 1: Create a Traffic Manager profile
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, create a new Traffic Manager profile by using the following information:

  -   Name: Unique string of alphanumeric characters. 
  -   Routing method: **Performance**
  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription
  -   Resource Group: **10992B0601-LabRG**. 
  -   Resource group location: specify the same Azure region to which you deployed the Azure VM in the first exercise of this lab

2.   Wait until the Traffic Manager profile is created. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 2: Configure Traffic Manager
  
1.   From the Traffic Manager profile blade, set the DNS TTL value to 30 seconds.
2.   From the Traffic Manager profile blade, create an endpoint representing the Azure web app that you deployed in the previous exercise.
3.   From the Traffic Manager profile blade, create an endpoint representing the public IP address named **10992B0601-vm1-ip**, which is assigned to the network interface of the virtual machine that you created in the previous exercise.
4.   In the **Traffic Manager profile** blade, verify that the monitoring status of both endpoints is **Online**.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created a Traffic Manager profile with two endpoints representing the Azure web app instance and the public IP address of the network interface attached to the Azure virtual machine.


## Exercise 3: Testing Traffic Manager failover functionality
  
### Scenario
  
You have completed configuration of the Traffic Manager profile with two endpoints and the performance routing method. At this point, you can verify its normal operations and test the failover process by stopping the Azure virtual machine. This indicates whether a similar cross-premises setup would satisfy business scalability and resiliency requirements.

After the testing is complete, to minimize the cost of your testing, you must delete all Azure resources that you provisioned for this lab.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Test Traffic Manager routing to the web app 
2.   Shut down the virtual machine and test Traffic Manager routing
3.   Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
4.   Prepare for the next lab


#### Task 1: Test Traffic Manager routing to the web app
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Command Prompt and then use the **nslookup** command line utility to resolve the fully qualified DNS name of the Traffic Manager profile that you created in the previous exercise.
2.   In the output of **nslookup**, note that the **Name** entry contains the name assigned to the public IP of the network interface attached to the virtual machine.

  > **Note:** This is the expected outcome, because you chose the **Performance** routing method of the Traffic Manager profile. According to the lab setup, the Azure virtual machine resides in the Azure region closest to you, as would be the case if this virtual machine represented your on-premises web server.

3.   From the Traffic Manager profile blade in the Azure portal, launch a new Internet Explorer tab displaying the home page of the web app hosted on the Azure VM. 
4.   Leave the new Internet Explorer tab open.


#### Task 2: Shut down the virtual machine and test Traffic Manager routing
  
1.   From the Azure portal, stop the **10992B0601-vm1** virtual machine.
2.   As soon as the **10992B0601-vm1** virtual machine is stopped, switch to the Internet Explorer tab that dispays the home page of the Adatum web app hosted on the Azure VM, and then click **Contact**. The connection should time out, because, with the default settings, it takes more than a minute for the failover to take effect. 
3.   Switch to the Internet Explorer page displaying the Azure portal and navigate to the Traffic Manager profile blade. 
4.   On the Traffic Manager profile blade review the **MONITOR STATUS** column of the Traffic Manager endpoints. Wait until the endpoint representing the Azure VM is listed with the **Degraded** status. 
5.   Switch to the **Command Prompt** window, and then rerun **nslookup** to resolve the fully qualified DNS name of the Traffic Manager profile that you created in the previous exercise.
6.   Review the output of the command. At this point, the **Name** entry should represent the name assigned to the Azure web app.
7.   Launch an **InPrivate Browsing** Internet Explorer session, and then browse to the URL of the fully qualified DNS name of the Traffic Manager profile.
6.   Notice that you can again access the Adatum web app home page. Traffic Manager automatically redirected you to the Azure web app instance.

  > **Note:** The Traffic Manager profile facilitates automatic failover regardless of the routing method.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, navigate to the **Resource groups** blade.
2.   In the **Resource group** blade, delete the **10992B0601-LabRG**.
3.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10992B-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.
3.   In the **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully tested the normal operations of Traffic Manager configured with the performance routing method. You should also have successfully verified that Traffic Manager can detect the failure of one of its endpoints and automatically redirect traffic to the remaining one by altering the outcome of the DNS name resolution.


  
**Question** 
In the last exercise of this lab, you used the DNS name within the **trafficmanager.net** namespace to access your web app. Can you use your own registered domain name in combination with Traffic Manager?

**Question** 
What value would you consider assigning to the Traffic Manager profile DNS TTL?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
