# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Integrating operations and application monitoring and management
# Lab: Implementing Azure Automation
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
#### Task 1: Create an Automation Account

  > **Note:** Identify an Azure region where you can provision both a Log Analytics workspace and an Azure Automation account. To determine the complete list of such regions, refer to https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/regions/services/. At the time of authoring this course, such locations include Australia Southeast, Canada Central, Central India, Japan East, Southeast Asia, UK South, US Gov Virginia, West Central US, and West Europe. 

1.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer.
2.   In Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at http://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
4.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **+ Create a resource**. 
5.   On the **New** blade, click **Monitoring + Management**, and then click **Automation**.
6.   On the **Add Automation Account** blade, specify the following, and then click **Create**:

  -   Name: **C10992B0701-LabAA**.
  -   Subscription: select the name of the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab
  -   Resource group: click **Create new** and type **10992B0701-LabRG** as the name of the new resource group
  -   Location: select the name of an Azure region where you can create an Automation account and a Log Analytics workspace
  -   Create Azure Run As account: **No**
  -   Pin to dashboard: check the checkbox

7.   Wait until the Automation account is provisioned. This should take about a minute.


#### Task 2: Create an Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   In the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **+ Create a resource**.
2.   On the **New** blade, click **Monitoring + Management**, and then click **Log Analytics**.
3.   On the **OMS Workspace** blade, specify the following, and then click **OK**:

  -   OMS Workspace: ensure that the **Create New** option is selected and type a unique string of between 4 and 63 charactes, consisting of a combination of letters, digits, and hyphens
  -   Subscription: select the name of the same Azure subscription you chose in the previous task
  -   Resource group: click the **Use existing** option, and then, in the drop-down list below, select **10992B0701-LabRG**
  -   Location: the name of the Azure region where you provision the Automation account in the previous task of this exercise
  -   Pricing tier: **Free**
  -   Pin to dashboard: check the checkbox

4.   Wait until the service is provisioned. This should take about a minute.
5.   Click **Microsoft Azure** label in the upper left corner of the portal to display the dashboard and then click the tile representing the newly created OMS workspace.
6.   On the OMS workspace blade, click **OMS Portal**. This opens another tab in Internet Explorer displaying the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal.


#### Task 3: Add the Automation Hybrid Worker and Automation &amp; Control solutions to the Operations Management Suite workspace
  
1.   In the new Internet Explorer tab, in the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, click the **Solutions Gallery** icon.
2.   In **Solutions Gallery**, click the **Automation Hybrid Worker** tile.
3.   On the **Automation Hybrid Worker** page, click **Add**. 
4.   In the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal, click the **Solutions Gallery** icon.
5.   In **Solutions Gallery**, click the **Automation &amp; Control** tile.
6.   On the **Automation &amp; Control** page, keep the **Change Tracking** and **Update Management** check boxes selected, and click **Configure Workspace**. 
7.   On the **Automation Account** pane, select the **Use existing** option, in the drop-down list, select **C10992B0701-LabAA**, and then click **OK**.
8.   In the **Configure Workspace** pane, click **Close**.
9.   Leave the tab displaying the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal open.


#### Task 4: Create a runbook
  
1.   On MIA-CL1,  click **Microsoft Azure** label in the upper left corner of the portal to display the dashboard and then click the tile representing  **C10992B0701-LabAA** Automation account.
2.   On the **C10992B0701-LabAA** blade, click **Runbooks**.
3.   On the **C10992B0701-LabAA - Runbooks** blade, click **+ Add a runbook**.
4.   On the **Add Runbook** blade, click **Import an existing runbook**.
5.   On the **Import** blade, click the folder icon next to the **Runbook file** text box.
6.   In the **File to Upload** dialog box, browse to the F:\\Allfiles\\Mod07\\Labfiles folder, click **New-10992B0701Workflow.ps1**, and then click **Open**.
7.   Ensure that **PowerShell Workflow** appears in the **Runbook type** drop-down list, and then click **Create**.
8.   On the **C10992B0701-LabAA - Runbooks** blade, click the name of the newly imported runbook.
9.   On the runbook blade, click **Edit**.
10.   On the **Edit PowerShell Workflow Runbook** blade, review the content of the workflow, click **Publish**, and then when prompted whether to proceed, click **Yes**. 

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully created an OMS workspace. You should have also added the Azure Automation &amp; Control solution to your workspace, created a new Azure Automation account and imported a sample Windows PowerShell Workflow-based runbook.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an on-premises computer as a Hybrid Runbook Worker
  
#### Task 1: Install the Microsoft Management Agent on the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the **Microsoft Operations Management Suite** portal and then click the **Settings** (gear wheel) icon in the toolbar at the top right hand side of the page.

  > **Note:** You might need to refresh the page if your connection timed out

2.   On the **Overview -&gt; Settings** page, click **Connected Sources**.
3.   Ensure that **Windows Servers** entry is selected and click **Download Window Agent (64-bit)**.
4.   When prompted whether to run or save **MMASetup-AMD64.exe**, click **Run**. This will start the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard. 
5.   On the **Welcome to the Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
6.   On the **IMPORTANT NOTICE** page, click **I Agree**.
7.   On the **Destination Folder** page, click **Next**.
8.   On the **Agent Setup Options** page, select the **Connect the agent to Azure Log Analytics (OMS)** checkbox, and then click **Next**.
9.   Once you reach the **Azure Log Analytics** page, switch to the Internet Explorer window showing the **Connected Sources** tab of the **Settings** page of the OMS portal, and then click the copy icon next to the **WORKSPACE ID** entry.
10.   If prompted whether to allow the webpage to access your Clipboard, click **Allow access**.
11.   Switch back to the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, place the cursor in the **Workspace ID** text box, and press the **Ctrl+V** key combination to paste the content of Clipboard.
12.   Switch to the Internet Explorer window showing the **Connected Sources** tab of the **Settings** page of the OMS portal, and then click the copy icon next to the **PRIMARY KEY** entry.
13.   Switch back to the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, place the cursor in the **Workspace Key** text box, and press the **Ctrl+V** key combination to paste the content of Clipboard.
14.   On the same **Azure Log Analytics** page of the wizard, ensure that the entry corresponding to the Azure cloud hosting your subscription (**Azure Commercial** or **Azure US Government**) is selected in the the **Azure Cloud** drop down list.
15.   Click **Next**.
16.   On the **Ready to Install** page of the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent Setup** wizard, click **Install**.
17.   On the **Microsoft Monitoring Agent configuration completed successfully** page, click **Finish**.


#### Task 2: Install the runbook environment and connect to Azure Automation
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal and navigate to the **C10992B0701-LabAA** blade.
2.   On the **C10992B0701-LabAA** blade, in the **ACCOUNT SETTINGS** section, click **Keys**.
3.   On the **C10992B0701-LabAA - Keys** blade, click the copy icon next to the **URL** entry.
4.   If prompted whether to allow the webpage to access your Clipboard, click **Allow access**.
5.   On MIA-CL1, click **Start**, in the Start menu, expand the **Windows Accessories** folder, and then click **Notepad**. 
6.   With the **Notepad** window active, press the **Ctrl+V** key combination to paste the content of Clipboard.
7.   Switch back to the Internet Explorer window showing the **C10992B0701-LabAA - Keys** blade and click the copy icon next to the **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entry.
8.   In the **Notepad** window, press Enter, and then press the **Ctrl+V** key combination to paste the content of Clipboard.
9.   On MIA-CL1, click **Start**, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, in the right-click menu, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.
10.   In order to identify the version of the Azure Automation agent component installed on MIA, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command and then press Enter:

```
$version = Get-ChildItem -Path 'C:\Program Files\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\Agent\AzureAutomation' -Name
```

11.   In order to specify the location of the Hybrid Registration module you will import in the next step, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following commands and then press Enter:

```
$modulePath = "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Monitoring Agent\Agent\AzureAutomation\$version\HybridRegistration\HybridRegistration.psd1"
```

12.   In order to import the Hybrid Registration module, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type in the following command and then press Enter:

```
Import-Module -FullyQualifiedName $modulePath
```

13.   To add MIA-CL1 as a Hybrid Runbook worker to the OMS workspace, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type in the following command (replacing `<url>` and `<key>` with the values of the **URL** and **PRIMARY ACCESS KEY** entries that you copied to Notepad), and then press Enter:

```
Add-HybridRunbookWorker -GroupName '10992B0701-LabWG' -Url <url> -Key <key>
```

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully installed the Microsoft Management Agent on your lab computer, installed the runbook environment, and connected the Hybrid Runbook Worker component to the Azure Automation service.


## Exercise 3: Running a runbook on a Hybrid Runbook Worker and examining the outcome
  
#### Task 1: Start the runbook from the lab virtual machine
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type in the following command, and then press Enter.

```
Add-AzureRmAccount
```

2.   When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type in the following command, and then press Enter:

```
Start-AzureRmAutomationRunbook -AutomationAccountName C10992B0701-LabAA -Name Write-10992HelloWorld -RunOn 10992B0701-LabWG -ResourceGroupName 10992B0701-LabRG -Parameters @{Name='AdatumLabWorld (local)'}
```


#### Task 2: Start the runbook from the Azure portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal, and then, on the **C10992B0701-LabAA** blade, click **Runbooks**.
2.   On the **Runbooks** blade, click **Write-10992HelloWorld**.
3.   On the **Write-10992HelloWorld** blade, click **Start**.
4.   On the **Start Runbook** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**.

  -   Parameters NAME: **AdatumLabWorld (from the Azure Portal)**
  -   Run on: **Hybrid Worker**
  -   Choose Hybrid Worker group: **10992B0701-LabWG**.

5.   This will automatically open a new job blade with the title starting with **Write-10992HelloWorld** followed by the date and time when the job was created. You should be able to monitor the job status as it changes from **Queued** through **Started** and to **Completed** in the **Job Summary** tile. Verify that there were no errors or warnings.


#### Task 3: Examine the outcome of the runbook execution
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal, navigate to the **C10992B0701-LabAA** blade, and then, in the **RESOURCES** section, click **Jobs**.
2.   On the **Jobs** blade, note the entries representing the two jobs you ran in the first two tasks of this exercise, and then click the more recent one.
3.   Click the **All Logs** tile.
4.   On the **Streams** blade, note that there are two outputs representing results of the two actions performed by the workflow. Click each entry and examine each output.


#### Task 4: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **Resource Groups**.
2.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click **10992B0701-LabRG**. 
3.   On the **10992B0701-LabRG** blade, click **Delete**. 
4.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10992B0701-LabRG"?** blade, type in the name of the resource group in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, and then click **Delete**.
5.   In the Azure portal, click the gear wheel icon in the upper right corner of the page and, at the bottom of the drop-down pane, click **Restore default setings**.
6.   When prompted whether to discard modifications, click **Yes**.
7.   Close all open windows.


> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you should have successfully started the Automation runbook from the lab virtual machine as well as from the Azure portal and verified that both of them completed successfully. You also removed all resources you created in this lab and discarded all custom modifications to the Azure portal dashboard.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
