# Module 6: Designing and implementing cross-premises applications
# Lab: Implementing Traffic Manager
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wishes to increase the resiliency and performance of its customer-facing website that currently resides in the perimeter network of the datacenter in London. For this reason, as part of A. Datum's evaluation of integration with Azure, you have been asked to test the resiliency and load balancing capabilities offered by Traffic Manager. Because you do not have access to the perimeter network, you will deploy your test environment in Azure. An Azure virtual machine will emulate your on-premises website. You will also provision an Azure web app in another Azure region. Next, you will use Microsoft Visual Studio to deploy the same web app provided by your development team to the Azure virtual machine and the Azure web app. Finally, you will configure traffic distribution to both of them by using Traffic Manager and testing both their normal operations and their behavior in case of a regional failure.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Deploy web apps to Azure and on-premises virtual machines, as well as to Web Apps.
-   Create and configure Traffic Manager profiles.
-   Test Traffic Manager functionality.

  >  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 40 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10992A-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Student**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Complete the following steps:

On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager

1.   In Hyper-V Manager, click MT17B-WS2016-NAT, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click 10992A-MIA-CL1, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click 10992A-MIA-CL1, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**
4.   Sign into 10992A-MIA-CL1 by using the following credentials:
  -   User name:  **Student**
  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Deploying two instances of the test web app.
  
### Scenario
  
To emulate a cross-premises implementation of Traffic Manager, you will deploy an Azure virtual machine that will represent your on-premises web server during testing. You will also deploy an Azure web app that will provide redundancy and scalability by leveraging Traffic Manager redirection and load-balancing capabilities. After both the Azure virtual machine and the Azure web app are online, you will use Visual Studio to deploy the existing web app to them. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure virtual machine
2.   Create an Azure web app
3.   Deploy the test web app to the Azure Web app
4.   Prepare an Azure virtual machine for web app deployment
5.   Deploy the test web app to the Azure virtual machine


#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Internet Explorer, and then go to the Azure portal. When you see the sign-in prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure portal, create a new  **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** virtual machine by using the **Resource Manager** deployment model. On **MIA-CL1**, from the Azure portal, create a new  **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter** virtual machine by using the **Azure Resource Manager** deployment model with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **TMLabVM**

  -   VM disk type:  **HDD**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group: create a new resource group named  **TMLabRG**

  -   Location: Specify the Azure region provided by the instructor.

  -   Size:  **A1 Basic**

  -   Storage account: Accept the default value. 

  -   Virtual network: Accept the default value. 

  -   Subnet: Accept the default value.

  -   Public IP address: Create a new static public IP address named  **TMLabVMPIP**. 

  -   Network security group:  **None**

  -   Extensions: Install the PowerShell Desired State Configuration extension with the following settings:
    -   Configuration Modules or Script:  **D:\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\LabWebSite.ps1.zip**
    -   Module-qualified Name of Configuration:  **LabWebSite.ps1\\LabWebSite**.
    -   Configuration Arguments: Leave blank
    -   Configuration Data PSD1 File: Leave blank
    -   WMF Version:  **4.0**
    -   Data Collection:  **Disable**
    -   Version:  **2.19**
    -   Auto Upgrade Minor Version:  **No**

  -   Diagnostics:  **Disabled**

  -   Availability set:  **None**


  >  **Note:** Do not wait for the deployment to complete. Proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Create an Azure web app
  
1.   From the Azure portal, create a new Azure web app with the following settings:

  -   App name: A unique name starting with the  **tmlabweb** prefix
  -   Resource group:  **TMLabRG**
  -   App Service plan:
    -   Name:  **TMLabappServicePlan**
    -   Location: An Azure region on a different continent from the one where you deployed the Azure virtual machine in the previous exercise of this lab
    -   Pricing tier:  **S1 Standard**



#### Task 3: Deploy the test web app to the Azure Web app
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start Visual Studio 2015 as administrator, and then open  **D:\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\AdatumWebsite\\AdatumWebsite.sln**.
2.   In Solution Explorer, publish the  **AdatumWebsite** project to the Azure web app you created in the previous task of this exercise.
3.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the  **Output** window within Visual Studio, and verify that the web app was successfully published. The Adatum web app automatically opens in the new tab within Visual Studio.
4.   In the Visual Studio window, close the  **Browse - Home Page** tab.


#### Task 4: Prepare an Azure virtual machine for web app deployment
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, verify that  **TMLabVM** is running.
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the  **TMLabVMPIP** blade, and then set its DNS name label. The label must be unique in the DNS namespace that is specific to the Azure region that you chose. The green check mark on the right side indicates whether the name that you typed is unique.

  >  **Note:** In general, assigning a DNS name is optional when deploying Azure virtual machines. It is mandatory when using Azure virtual machines as Traffic Manager profile endpoints.

3.   In the Azure portal, from the  **TMLabVM** blade, launch the Remote Desktop connection to the **TMLabVM** virtual machine.
4.   Sign in to  **TMLabVM** with the username **Student** and the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.
5.   Within the Remote Desktop session to  **TMLabVM**, from the  **Server Manager** window, set the **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration** to **Off** for administrators.
6.   Within the Remote Desktop session to  **TMLabVM**, start Internet Explorer,  and then browse to Web Deploy v3.6: [http://aka.ms/v9ha4p](http://aka.ms/v9ha4p).
7.   Download and install WebDeploy\_amd64\_en-US.msi by using the  **Complete** setup type.
8.   Close the Remote Desktop session window.


#### Task 5: Deploy the test web app to the Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the Visual Studio interface. 
2.   From Visual Studio, publish the  **AdatumWebsite** project to the **TMLabVM** Azure virtual machine. If you see the **Certificate Error** dialog box, select the **Save this certificate for future sessions of Visual Studio** check box, and then click **Accept**.

  >  **Note:** When deploying a web app to an on-premises web server, you must provide equivalent connection information including the server entry that designates the IP address and port of Web Management Service, the credentials of an account with permissions sufficient to complete the deployment, and the URL of the target website.

3.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the  **Output** window within Visual Studio, and verify that the web app was successfully published. The Adatum web app automatically opens in the new tab within Visual Studio.
4.   Close the  **Browse - Home Page** tab in Visual Studio.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure virtual machine and an Azure web app and deployed an existing web app to both of them by using Visual Studio.


## Exercise 2: Creating and configuring an Azure Traffic Manager profile
  
### Scenario
  
With both the Azure virtual machine and Azure web app running and hosting the web app code, you now are ready to create a Traffic Manager profile with two endpoints. The endpoints represent individual instances of the web app. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a Traffic Manager profile
2.   Add Traffic Manager endpoints


#### Task 1: Create a Traffic Manager profile
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, create a new Traffic Manager profile by using the following information:

  -   Name: Unique string of alphanumeric characters. The resulting name must be unique in the  **trafficmanager.net** DNS namespace.
  -   Routing method:  **Performance**
  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription
  -   Resource Group:  **TMLabRG**. 

2.   Wait until the Traffic Manager profile is created. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 2: Add Traffic Manager endpoints
  
1.   In the  **Settings** blade of the Traffic Manager profile, use the **Configuration** link to set the DNS TTL value to 30 seconds.
2.   In the  **Settings** blade of the Traffic Manager profile, use the **Endpoints** link to create an endpoint representing the Azure web app that you deployed in the previous exercise.
3.   In the  **Settings** blade of the Traffic Manager profile, use the **Endpoints** link to create an endpoint representing the public IP address of the network interface attached to the Azure virtual machine that you deployed in the previous exercise.

  >  **Note:** If you were adding an on-premises web app with a public IP address, then you would select **External endpoint** instead. You would also need to provide the corresponding FQDN and location by specifying the closest Azure region.

4.   In the  **Traffic Manager profile** blade, verify that the monitoring status of both endpoints is **Online**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully created a Traffic Manager profile and created endpoints representing the Azure web app instance and the public IP address of the network interface attached to the Azure virtual machine.


## Exercise 3: Testing Traffic Manager failover functionality
  
### Scenario
  
You have completed configuration of the Traffic Manager profile with two endpoints and the performance routing method. At this point, you can verify its normal operations and test the failover process by stopping the Azure virtual machine. This indicates whether a similar cross-premises setup would satisfy business scalability and resiliency requirements.

After the testing is complete, to minimize the cost of your testing, you must delete all Azure resources that you provisioned for this lab.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Test Traffic Manager routing to the web app 
2.   Shut down the virtual machine and test Traffic Manager routing
3.   Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
4.   Prepare for the next lab


#### Task 1: Test Traffic Manager routing to the web app
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start the **Command Prompt** as administrator and then use the **nslookup** tool to resolve the fully qualified DNS name of the Traffic Manager profile that you created in the previous exercise.
2.   Notice the output of the command. The  **Name** entry should contain the name assigned to the public IP of the network interface attached to the virtual machine.

  >  **Note:** This is the expected outcome, because you chose the **Performance** routing method of the Traffic Manager profile. According to the lab setup, the Azure virtual machine resides in the Azure region closest to you, as would be the case if this virtual machine represented your on-premises web server.

3.   To browse to the web app hosted on the Azure virtual machine, from the Azure portal, click the name of the Traffic Manager profile. 


#### Task 2: Shut down the virtual machine and test Traffic Manager routing
  
1.   From the Azure portal, stop the  **TMLabVM** virtual machine.
2.   Switch to the browser window that shows the Adatum web app home page, and then click  **Contact**. The connection should time out, because, with the current settings, it takes more than a minute for the failover to take effect. 
3.   Switch to the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, and then rerun the **nslookup** tool to resolve the fully qualified DNS name of the Traffic Manager profile that you created in the previous exercise.
4.   Notice the output of the command. At this point, the  **Name** entry should represent the name assigned to the Azure web app.
5.   Launch an  **InPrivate Browsing** Internet Explorer session, and then browse to the URL of the fully qualified DNS name of the Traffic Manager profile.
6.   Notice that at this point you can successfully access the Adatum web app home page again. Traffic Manager automatically redirected you to the Azure web app instance.

  >  **Note:** The Traffic Manager profile facilitates automatic failover regardless of the routing method.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, navigate to the  **Resource groups** blade.
2.   In the  **Resource group** blade, delete the **TMLabRG**.
3.   Close Internet Explorer.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully tested the normal operations of Traffic Manager configured with the performance routing method. You should also have successfully verified that Traffic Manager can detect the failure of one of its endpoints and automatically redirect traffic to the remaining one by altering the outcome of the DNS name resolution process.



## 
  
**Question** 
In the last exercise of this lab, you used the DNS name within the  **trafficmanager.net** namespace to access your web app. Can you use your own registered domain name in combination with Traffic Manager?

**Question** 
What value would you consider using for the Traffic Manager profile DNS TTL?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  