# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Designing and implementing cross-premises applications
# Lab: Implementing Traffic Manager
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying two instances of the test web app.
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual machine.
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**. When you see the sign in prompt to, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Microsoft Azure subscription.
2.   In the hub menu, click  **New**.
3.   In the  **New** blade, click **Compute**.
4.   In the  **Compute** blade, click **Windows Server 2012 R2Datacenter**.
5.   In the  **Windows Server 2012 R2Datacenter** blade, ensure that **Resource Manager** appears in the **Select a deployment model** drop-down list, and then click **Create**. This opens the  **Create virtual machine** blade and the **Basics** blade to its right.
6.   In the  **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  -   Name:  **TMLabVM**

  -   VM disk type:  **HDD**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group: select the  **Create new** option and type **TMLabRG** in the text box below.

  -   Location: The Azure region closest to the classroom location


7.   In the  **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
8.   Click  **A1 Basic**, and then click  **Select**.
9.   In  **Settings**, specify the following settings:
  -   Use managed disks: No.
  -   Storage account: Accept the default value. (This creates a new storage account.)
  -   Virtual network: Accept the default value. (This creates a new virtual network.)
  -   Subnet: Accept the default value.
10.   Click  **Public IP address(new) TMLabVM-ip**.
11.   In the  **Choose public IP address** blade, click **Create new**.
12.   In the  **Create public IP address** blade, in the **Name** box, type **TMLabVMPIP**, click  **Static**, and then click  **OK**.
13.   In the  **Settings** blade, click **Network security group**.
14.   In the  **Choose network security group**, click  **None**.
15.   In the  **Settings** blade, click **Extensions**.
16.   In the  **Extensions** blade, click **Add extension**.
17.   In the  **New resource** blade, click **PowerShell Desired State Configuration**.
18.   In the  **PowerShell Desired State Configuration** blade, click **Create**.
19.   In the  **Install extension** blade, click the folder icon next to the **Configuration Modules or Script** box.
20.   In the  **Choose File to Upload** window, browse to the **D:\\Mod06\\Labfiles** folder, click the **LabWebSite.ps1.zip** file, and then click **Open**.
21.   In the  **Module-qualified Name of Configuration** box, type **LabWebSite.ps1\\LabWebSite**.
22.   In the  **Install extension** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  -   Configuration Arguments: Leave blank
  -   Configuration Data PSD1 File: Leave blank
  -   WMF Version:  **4.0**
  -   Data Collection:  **Disable**
  -   Version:  **2.19**
  -   Auto Upgrade Minor Version:  **No**
23.   In the  **Extensions** blade, click **OK**.
24.   Back in the  **Settings** blade, leave the **Availability set** setting with its default value of **None**.
25.   In the  **MonitoringDiagnostics** section, click **Disabled**.
26.   Click  **OK**.
27.   In the  **Summary** blade, click **OK**.
  >  **Note:** Do not wait for the deployment to complete. Proceed to the next task.


#### Task 2: Create an Azure web app
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, in Internet Explorer, click  **New**.
2.   In the  **New** blade, click **Web** **+** **Mobile**.
3.   In the  **Web** **+** **Mobile** blade, click **Web App**.
4.   In the  **Web App** blade, in the **App** **name** box, type any sequence of characters starting with the **tmlabweb** prefix. Ensure that the name is globally unique, as indicated by a green check mark on the right side of the box.
5.   In the  **Web App** blade, click **Use existing** in the Resource Group section. Then, in the drop-down list, click **TMLabRG**. 
6.   In the  **Web App** blade, click **App Service plan/Location**.
7.   In the  **App Serviceplan** blade, click **Create New**.
8.   In the  **App Service plan** text box, type **TMLabAppServicePlan**.
9.   In the  **Location** blade, click an Azure region on a different continent from the one where you deployed the Azure virtual machine in the previous exercise of this lab.
10.   Click  **Pricing tier**.
11.   In the  **Choose your pricing tier** blade, click **S1 Standard**, and then click  **Select**.
12.   In the  **New App Service plan** blade, click **OK**.
13.   In the  **Web App** blade, click **Create**.


#### Task 3: Deploy the test web app to the Azure Web app.
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, click  **Start**, in the list of apps, right-click  **Visual Studio 2015**. In the menu, click  **More** and then click **Run as administrator**. If prompted to sign in, click the **Sign in** button and in the **Sign in** window, type the name of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click **Next**. In the **Enter password** window, type in the password of the Microsoft account that you provided in the previous step, and then click **Sign in**. In the **Personalization Account** window, click **Close**.
2.   In Microsoft Visual Studio, click the  **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click  **Project/Solution**.
3.   In the  **Open Project** window, browse to the **D:\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\AdatumWebsite** folder, click the file **AdatumWebsite.sln**, and then click  **Open**.
4.   In the  **Solution Explorer** window, right-click the **AdatumWebsite** project, and then in the menu, click **Publish**. This opens the  **Publish** wizard.
5.   On the  **Profile** page, click **Microsoft Azure App Service**.
6.   In the  **App Service** dialog box, ensure that your Microsoft account is listed in the upper right corner. If not, click **Add an account,** and then in the list, click **Add an account**. In the  **Sign in to your account** window, type the name of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription, and then click **Continue**. In the  **Sign in to your account** window, type in the password of the Microsoft account that you provided in the previous step, and then click **Sign in**. In the **Personalization Account** window, click **Close**.
7.   In the  **App Service** window, ensure that the name of your subscription appears in the **Subscription** list and that the **Resource Group** entry appears in the **View** list. Expand the **TMLabRG** folder, click the entry representing the Azure web app that you created in the previous task of this exercise, and then click **OK**.
8.   In the  **Publish** wizard, on the **Connection** page, click **Validate Connection**. Ensure that you see the green check mark confirming that the validation was successful, and then click  **Next**.
9.   In the  **Publish** wizard, on the **Settings** page, verify that the **Release** entry appears in the **Configuration** drop-down list box, and then click **Next**.
10.   On the  **Preview** page, to view files that will be deployed to the Azure web app, click **Start Preview**.
11.   Click  **Publish**. 
12.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the  **Output** window within Visual Studio, and verify that the web app published successfully. The Adatum web app automatically opens in the new tab within Visual Studio.
13.   In the Visual Studio window, close the  **Browse - Home Page** tab.


#### Task 4: Prepare an Azure virtual machine for web app deployment
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to Internet Explorer that displays the Azure portal.
2.   In the hub menu, click  **Virtual machines**.
3.   In the  **Virtual machines** blade, verify that **TMLabVM** is listed with the **Running** status. If not, wait until the status changes to **Running**. You might need to click  **Refresh** to update the view.
4.   Click  **TMLabVM**. This opens the  **TMLabVM** blade.
5.   In the  **TMLabVM** blade, click the link below **Public IP address/DNS name label**. This opens the  **TMLabVMPIP** blade.
6.   In the  **SETTINGS** section, click **Configuration**.
7.   In the  **DNS name label (optional)** box, type a name that will be resolvable to the corresponding public IP address and press Enter. The name must be unique in the Domain Name System (DNS) namespace that is specific to the Azure region that you chose. The green check mark on the right side indicates whether the name that you typed is actually unique.
  >  **Note:** In general, assigning a DNS name is optional when deploying Azure virtual machines. It is mandatory when using Azure virtual machines as Microsoft Azure Traffic Manager profile endpoints.

8.   Click  **Save**.
9.   Scroll back to the  **TMLabVM** blade, click **Connect**.
10.   When you receive a prompt to open or save the .rdp file, click  **Open**.
11.   If a  **Remote Desktop Connection** warning message displays, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** check box.
12.   In the  **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, click **Connect**.
13.   In the  **Windows Security** dialog box, enter the user name **Student** and the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.
14.   Click  **OK**.
15.   In the  **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Yes**.
16.   Within the Remote Desktop session, if you see the prompt asking you whether to find PCs, devices, and content on this network, click  **No**.
17.   Within the Remote Desktop session to  **TMLabVM**, in the  **Server Manager** window, click **Local Server**.
18.   In the  **Details** pane of Server Manager, next to the **IE Enhanced Security Configuration** entry, click **On**.
19.   In the  **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration** dialog box, in the **Administrators** section, click the **Off** option, and then click **OK**.
20.   Within the Remote Desktop session to  **TMLabVM**, start Internet Explorer.
21.   When you receive the prompt to  **Use recommended security, privacy, and compatibility settings**, click  **OK.**
22.   If you see a message at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window regarding protected mode, click  **Don't show this message again**.
23.   In Internet Explorer, browse to Web Deploy v3.6: 
        [http://aka.ms/v9ha4p](http://aka.ms/v9ha4p)
      . The  **Web Deploy 3.6** download page displays.
24.   On the  **Web Deploy 3.6** download page, click **Download**.
25.   On the  **Choose the download you want** page, select the **WebDeploy\_amd64\_en-US.msi** check box, and then click **Next**.
26.   If you see a notification that  **Internet Explorer blocked a pop-up from www.microsoft.com**, click  **Options for this site** and in the drop-down list, click **Always allow**.
27.   When you receive the prompt to run or save  **WebDeploy\_amd64\_en-US.msi**, click  **Run**. This launches the  **Microsoft Web Deploy 3.6 Setup** wizard.
28.   On the  **Welcome to theMicrosoft Web Deploy 3.6 Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.
29.   On the  **End-User License Agreement** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then click **Next**.
30.   On the  **Choose Setup Type** page, click **Complete**.
31.   On the  **Ready to install Microsoft Web Deploy 3.6** page, click **Install**.
32.   On the  **Completed the Microsoft Web Deploy 3.6 Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.
33.   Close the Remote Desktop session window.


#### Task 5: Deploy the test web app to the Azure virtual machine
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the Visual Studio interface. 
2.   In the  **Solution Explorer** window of Visual Studio, right-click the **AdatumWebsite** project, and then click **Publish**.
3.   In the  **Publish Web** wizard, click **Profile**.
4.   On the  **Profile** page, click **More Options**, and then click  **Microsoft Azure Virtual Machines**.
5.   In the  **Select Existing Virtual Machine** dialog box, ensure that the same Microsoft account that you used to deploy the web app to the Azure web app appears in the upper drop-down list. Next, in the **Existing Virtual Machines** drop-down list, click **TMLabVM**, and then click  **OK**.
6.   On the  **Connection** page, specify the following settings:
  -   Publish method:  **Web Deploy**
  -   Server: Accept the default entry. This should automatically point to the port 8172 of the fully qualified DNS name associated with the public IP address of the network interface attached to the virtual machine that you chose.
  -   Site name:  **Default Web Site**
  -   User name:  **Student**
  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd1234**
  -   Save password: Select the check box.
  -   Destination URL: Accept the default entry. This should point to port 80 of the Default Web Site on the virtual machine that you chose.

  >  **Note:** When deploying a web app to an on-premises web server, you must provide equivalent connection information including the server entry that designates the IP address and port of Web Management Service, the credentials of an account with permissions sufficient complete the deployment, and the URL of the target website.

7.   Click  **Validate Connection**.
8.   If you see the  **Certificate Error** dialog box, select the **Save this certificate for future sessions of Visual Studio** check box, and then click **Accept**.
9.   Ensure that you see the green check mark confirming that the validation was successful, and then click  **Next**.
10.   On the  **Settings** page, verify that the **Release** entry appears in the **Configuration** drop down list, and then click **Next**.
11.   On the  **Preview** page, click **Start Preview**, and then review the list of files that will be deployed to the virtual machine.
12.   Click  **Publish**. 
13.   Monitor the progress of publishing in the  **Output** window within the Visual Studio interface, and verify that the web app was successfully published. The Adatum web app will automatically open in the new tab within Visual Studio.
14.   Close the  **Browse - Home Page** tab in Visual Studio.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure virtual machine and an Azure web app and deployed an existing web app to both of them by using Visual Studio.


## Exercise 2: Creating and configuring an Azure Traffic Manager profile
  
#### Task 1: Create a Traffic Manager profile
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the Azure portal within Internet Explorer and click  **New**.
2.   In the  **New** blade, in the search text box, type **Traffic Manager profile** and then press Enter.
3.   In the  **Everything** blade, click **Traffic Manager profile**. 
4.   In the  **Traffic Manager profile** blade, click **Create**.
5.   In the  **Create Traffic Manager profile** blade, specify the following settings:
  -   Name: Unique string of alphanumeric characters. The resulting name must be unique in the  **trafficmanager.net** DNS namespace. If the name is unique and valid, a green check mark appears.
  -   Routing method:  **Performance**
  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription

6.   In the  **Resource Group** section, click **Use existing**, and in the drop down list, click  **TMLabRG**. This automatically sets the value in the  **Resource group location** box.
7.   Click  **Create** and wait until the Traffic Manager profile is created. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 2: Add Traffic Manager endpoints
  
1.   In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click  **More services**.
2.   In the list of services, click  **Traffic Manager profiles**.
3.   In the  **Traffic Manager profiles** blade, click the entry representing the newly created Traffic Manager profile. The Azure portal will automatically display the **Traffic Manager profile** blade.
4.   In the traffic manager profile blade, click  **Configuration**.
5.   In the traffic manager profile configuration blade, change the entry in the  **DNS time to live (TTL)** box to **30** and press Enter.
6.   Click  **Save**.
7.   In the traffic manager profile blade, click  **Endpoints**.
8.   In the traffic manager endpoints blade, click  **Add**.
9.   In the  **Addendpoint** blade, ensure that the **Azure endpoint** appears in the **Type** list.
10.   In the  **Name** text box, type the name of the web app that you created in the previous exercise.
11.   In the  **Target resource type** drop-down list of websites, click **App Service**.
12.   Click  **Target resource** **Choose an app service**.
13.   In the  **Resource** blade, click the web app that you created in the previous exercise.
14.   To add the endpoint, click  **OK**. 
15.   In the  **Endpoints** blade, click **Add**.
16.   In the  **Addendpoint** blade, ensure that **Azure endpoint** appears in the **Type** list.
  >  **Note:** If you were adding an on-premises web app with a public IP address, then you would select **External endpoint** instead. You would also need to provide the corresponding fully qualified domain name (FQDN) and location by specifying the closest Azure region.

17.   In the  **Name** box, type **tmlabvm**.
18.   In the  **Target resource type** drop-down list, click **Public IP address**.
19.   Click  **Target resource** **Choose** **a public IP address**.
20.   In the  **Resource** blade, click the public IP address associated with the network interface of the virtual machine that you created in the previous exercise, which you named **TMLabVMPIP**.
21.   To add the endpoint, click  **OK**. 
22.   Scroll back to the  **Traffic Manager profile** blade, and wait until the monitoring status of both endpoints is **Online** by reviewing the **Endpoints** section.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully created a Traffic Manager profile and created endpoints representing the Azure web app instance and the public IP address of the network interface attached to the Azure virtual machine.


## Exercise 3: Testing Traffic Manager failover functionality
  
#### Task 1: Test Traffic Manager routing to the web app
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, click  **Start**, type  **cmd**, right-click  **Command Prompt**, and then click **Run as administrator**. 
2.   In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  nslookup <traffic_manager_profile>.trafficmanager.net
  ```

   where  _\<traffic\_manager\_profile\>_ represents the unique name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile.

3.   Notice the output of the command. The  **Name** entry should contain the name assigned to the public IP of the network interface attached to the virtual machine.
  >  **Note:** This is the expected outcome, because you chose the **Performance** routing method of the Traffic Manager profile. According to the lab setup, the Azure virtual machine resides in the Azure region closer to you, as would be the case if this virtual machine was representing your on-premises web server.

4.   Switch to the Azure portal that shows the  **Traffic Manager profile** blade.
5.   In the blade, click  **Overview**. 
6.   Under the  **DNS name** entry that contains the name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile, click the link. This should automatically open the Internet Explorer window that displays the Adatum web app home page of the Adatum Web site running in the virtual machine.


#### Task 2: Shut down the virtual machine and test Traffic Manager routing
  
1.   Switch to the Azure portal. In the hub menu, click  **Virtual machines**.
2.   In the  **Virtual machines** blade, click **TMLabVM**. 
3.   In the  **TMLabVM** blade, click **Stop**.
4.   When you receive the prompt to stop  **'TMLabVM'**, click  **Yes.** Wait for the notification that the virtual machine is stopped.
5.   Switch back to the browser window that shows the Adatum web app home page, and then click  **Contact**. The connection should time out, because, with the current settings, it takes more than a minute for the failover to take effect. 
6.   Switch to the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, re-type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  nslookup <traffic_manager_profile>.trafficmanager.net
  ```

   where  _\<traffic\_manager\_profile\>_ represents the unique name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile.

7.   Take a note of the output of the command. At this point, the  **Name** entry should represent the name assigned to the Azure web app.
8.   Switch to Internet Explorer. Click the cogwheel icon in the upper right corner. In the drop down menu, click  **Safety**, and then in the next menu, click  **InPrivate Browsing**.
9.   In the URL box, type  **http://_\<traffic\_manager\_profile\>_.trafficmanager.net** where _\<traffic\_manager\_profile\>_ represents the unique name that you assigned to the Traffic Manager profile. Press Enter.
10.   Notice that you can successfully access the Adatum web app home page again. Traffic Manager automatically redirected you to the Azure web app instance.
  >  **Note:** The Traffic Manager profile facilitates automatic failover regardless of the routing method.


#### Task 3: Identify and delete all lab Azure Resource Manager resources.
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the Azure portal. 
2.   In the hub vertical menu on the left, click  **Resource Groups**.
3.   In the  **Resource groups** blade, click **TMLabRG**. 
4.   In the  **TMLabRG** blade, click **Delete resource group**. 
5.   In the  **Are you sure you want to delete "TMLabRG"?** blade, type the name of the resource group in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** box, and then click **Delete**.
6.   Close Internet Explorer.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully tested the normal operations of Traffic Manager configured with the performance routing method. You should also have successfully verified that Traffic Manager can detect the failure of one of its endpoints and automatically redirect traffic to the remaining one by altering the outcome of the DNS name resolution process.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
