# Module 5: Designing and implementing Azure Site Recovery solutions
# Lab: Implementing protection of on-premises Hyper-V virtual machines in Azure by using Site Recovery
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation wants to implement a disaster recovery site in Azure for its London datacenter workloads. For this reason, as part of A. Datum's evaluation of integration with Microsoft Azure, you have been asked to use Site Recovery to configure the protection of a virtual machine running on one of your Hyper-V hosts.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Prepare an Azure subscription for implementing Site Recovery.
-   Prepare a Hyper-V host for implementing Site Recovery.
-   Configure Site Recovery protection of a Hyper-V virtual machine.
  >  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 40 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10992A-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Student**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
4.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then, in the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**.
5.   Sign in to  **10992A-MIA-CL1** by using the following credentials:
  -   User name:  **Student**
  -   Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Preparing your Microsoft Azure subscription for implementing Site Recovery
  
### Scenario
  
Before you configure your first test Site Recovery environment, you must create an Azure virtual network, an Azure storage account, and a Recovery Services vault in your Azure subscription. In addition, you will configure the Recovery Services vault protection goal, which defines the scenario you intend to implement, with Hyper-V hosts on-premises and in the secondary site in Azure. These are Azure-based prerequisites that must be in place before you can configure protection of your Hyper-V virtual machines.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create an Azure virtual network
2.   Create an Azure storage account
3.   Create a Recovery Services vault
4.   Configure the Recovery Services vault protection goals


#### Task 1: Create an Azure virtual network
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start  **Internet Explorer**, browse to the Azure portal, and then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure portal, create a new Azure virtual network with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **AdatumASRVNet**

  -   Address space:  **192.168.0.0/16**

  -   Subnet name:  **Subnet1**

  -   Subnet address range:  **192.168.0.0/24**

  -   Subscription: The name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group:  **AdatumASRRG**

  -   Location: &lt;Azure region closest to the location of the lab&gt;
  
  -   Service endpoints (Preview): **Disabled**

  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the check box clear.



#### Task 2: Create an Azure storage account
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, from the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window, create a new Azure storage account with the following settings:
  -   Name: a unique name between 3 and 24 characters consisting of lower case letters and digits. Verify that the green checkmark appears on the right hand side of the text box. 

  -   Deployment model:  **Resource manager**

  -   Account kind:  **Storage (general purpose v1)**

  -   Performance:  **Standard**

  -   Replication:  **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

  -   Secure tansfer required: **Disabled**

  -   Subscription: The name of your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group:  **AdatumASRRG**

  -   Location: The same Azure region you chose in the previous task of this exercise
  
  -   Configure virtual networks: **Disabled**

  -   Pin to dashboard: Leave the check box clear.

2.   Wait until the storage account is provisioned before proceeding to the next task.


#### Task 3: Create a Recovery Services vault
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window, create a new **Recovery Services vault** with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **AdatumASRVault**

  -   Subscription: The name of your Azure subscription 

  -   Resource group:  **AdatumASRRG**.

  -   Location: The same Azure region you chose in the previous task of this exercise

  -   Pin to dashboard: Select the check box.

2.   Wait until the Azure Recovery vault is provisioned before proceeding to the next step. This should take less than a minute. The portal will automatically display the vault's blade at that point.


#### Task 4: Configure the Recovery Services vault protection goals
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, navigate to the **RS10992B0501-vault** blade.
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **Protection goal** blade of **Site Recovery**.
3.   Configure  **Protection goal** with the following settings:
   -   Where are your virtual machines located?: **On-premises**

  -   Where do you want to replicate your machines to?: **To Azure**

  -   Are your machines virtualized?: **Yes, with Hyper-V**

  -   Are you using System Center VMM to manage your Hyper-V hosts?: **No**

4.   On the **Deployment planning** blade, confirm that you have completed deployment planning.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created an Azure virtual network, created an Azure storage account, created a Recovery Services vault, and configured the Recovery Services vault protection goals.


## Exercise 2: Preparing a Hyper-V host for the implementation
  
### Scenario
  
With Azure-based prerequisites in place, it is now time for you to configure your on-premises Hyper-V host. This involves installing the Azure Site Recovery Provider and the Azure Site Recovery Services agent. You also must register the Hyper-V host with the Recovery Services vault.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Enable the Windows Update service
2.   Install the Azure Site Recovery Provider and the Azure Site Recovery Services agent
3.   Register the Hyper-V host with the Recovery Services vault.


#### Task 1: Enable the Windows Update service
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, start  **Computer Management**.
2.   In the  **Computer Management** console, change the startup type of the **Windows Update** service to **Manual**.
3.   Close the  **Computer Management** console.


#### Task 2: Install the Azure Site Recovery Provider and the Azure Site Recovery Services agent
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, within the  **Internet Explorer** window, in the **Prepare source** blade, create a new **Hyper-V site** named **AdatumLabSite**. 
2.   From the  **Prepare source** blade, open the **Add Server** blade.
3.   Use the  **Download** link in step **3. Download the installer for the Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Provider** to start **Azure Site Recovery Provider Setup (Hyper-V server)**.
4.   During the setup, disable the  **Microsoft Update** option.
5.   Wait for the installation to complete, and then click  **Register** to launch the **Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Registration Wizard**.


#### Task 3: Register the Hyper-V host with the Recovery Services vault.
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, switch to the  **Internet Explorer** window that is showing the **Add Server** blade in the Azure portal.
2.   Download the vault registration key to register the host in a Hyper-V AdatumLabSite site. 
3.   Switch to the  **Microsoft Azure Site Recovery Registration Wizard**. 
4.   On the  **Vault Settings** page, point to the newly downloaded key.
5.   Complete the wizard with the default settings.
6.   Wait until the registration completes successfully.
    >  **Note:** It might take between 15 and 30 minutes before the Hyper-V server appears in the Azure portal.

7.   Switch to the Internet Explorer window that is showing the  **Add Server** blade in the Azure portal.
8.   Close the  **Prepare source** blade.
9.   Back on the **Prepare infrastructure** blade, click **3 Source Prepare**.
10.   On the **Prepare source** blade, verify that MIA-CL1 is listed under **Step 2: Ensure Hyper-V servers are added**, and then click **OK**. This will automatically display the **Target** blade. If you do not see the name of your lab virtual machine appearing under step 2, wait for five minutes, and then repeat steps 8 through 10.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully installed the Azure Site Recovery Provider and the Azure Site Recovery Services agent and registered the Hyper-V host with the Recovery Services vault.


## Exercise 3: Configuring Site Recovery protection of a Hyper-V virtual machine
  
### Scenario
  
After you have satisfied all the prerequisites, you can configure protection of your Hyper-V virtual machine. To accomplish this, you will first verify that the Azure virtual network and the Azure storage account you created in the first exercise of this lab qualify to host the replica of your protected virtual machine. Next, you will create a Site Recovery replication policy in the Recovery Services vault and associate it with your Hyper-V host. This will finally allow you to configure and enable replication of the Hyper-V virtual machine. With the protected virtual machine in place, you can then create a recovery plan. 

Finally, to minimize the cost of your testing, you will identify and delete all the Azure resources that you created in your test environment.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Verify the existence of a Site Recovery target storage account and virtual network 
2.   Create and associate a Site Recovery replication policy with the Hyper-V host
3.   Configure and enable virtual machine replication
4.   Create a recovery plan
5.   Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
6.   Prepare for the next lab


#### Task 1: Verify the existence of a Site Recovery target storage account and virtual network
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal showing the  **Target** blade, verify that your Azure subscription is listed in the **Subscription** drop-down list and that the **Resource Manager** appears in the **Select the deployment model used after failover** drop-down list.
2.   Verify that at least one compatible Azure storage account exists.
3.   Verify that at least one compatible Azure virtual network exists.
4.   Click  **OK** to open the **Replication policy** blade.


#### Task 2: Create and associate a Site Recovery replication policy with the Hyper-V host
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, create a new replication policy with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **AdatumASRPolicy**

  -   Source type:  **Hyper-V**

  -   Target type:  **Azure**.

  -   Copy frequency:  **15 minutes**

  -   Recovery point retention in hours:  **2**

  -   App-consistent snapshot frequency in hours:  **1**

  -   Initial replication start time: 12 hours ahead of the current time.

  -   Associated Hyper-V site:  **AdatumLabSite**

2.   Confirm that you have completed capacity planning.
3.   Complete the  **Prepare infrastructure** steps to return to the **Site Recovery** blade.


#### Task 3: Configure and enable virtual machine replication
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, start  **Step 2: Replicate Application**. 
2.   Set the source to the  **AdatumLabSite**. 
3.   Configure the target with the following settings:
  -   Target:  **Azure**

  -   Subscription: select the name of your Azure subscription in the drop-down list

  -   Post-failover deployment model:  **Resource Manager**

  -   Storage account: storage account you created in the first exercise

  -   Post-failover Azure network:  **AdatumASRVNet**

  -   Subnet:  **Subnet1 (192.168.0.0/24)**

4.   In the  **Select virtual machines** blade, point to the virtual machine guest on the lab virtual machine.
5.   In the  **Configure properties** blade, set the **OS TYPE** for **Defaults** to **Windows**.
6.   Set the Replication policy to  **AdatumASRPolicy**
7.   Enable replication.
  >  **Note:** Disregard any error messages indicating that **Enabling protection** operation failed.


#### Task 4: Create a recovery plan
  
1.   On  **MIA-CL1**, in the Azure portal, start  **Step 3: Manage Recovery Plans**. 
2.   Create a new recovery plan with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **AdatumLabRecoveryPlan**

  -   Source:  **AdatumLabSite**

  -   Target:  **Microsoft Azure**

  -   Allow items with deployment model:  **Resource Manager**

  -   Select items: the virtual machine guest on the lab virtual machine 

3.   Wait for the recovery plan to be created. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 5: Identify and delete all lab Azure resources
  
1.   In the Azure portal, from the  **AdatumASRVault** Recovery Services vault blade, disable protection for the guest virtual machine on your lab virtual machine.
2.   In the Azure portal, delete the Hyper-V Host entry that represents your lab computer.
    >  **Note:** Disregard any error messages indicating that **Deleting Hyper-V server** operation failed.

3.   In the Azure portal, delete the  **AdatumASRVault** Recovery Services vault.
4.   In the Azure portal, delete the  **AdatumASRRG** resource group.
5.   Close all open windows.


#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
After you have completed this lab, revert the virtual machines in preparation for the next lab: 

1.   On the host computer, start  **Microsoft Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In the  **Virtual Machines** list, right-click **10992A-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the  **Revert Virtual Machine** dialog box, click **Revert**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully verified the existence of a Site Recovery target storage account and virtual network, created and associated a Site Recovery replication policy with the Hyper-V host, configured and enabled virtual machine replication, created a recovery plan, and identified and deleted all lab Azure resources.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did the lab not include failover and failback?

**Question** 
If you wanted to protect multiple Hyper-V virtual machines that reside behind an on-premises load balancer, how would you configure your Site Recovery solution?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
